Thevillage had been hastily abandoned.
The car was found abandoned in a nearby town.
The government does not propose to abandon the project altogether.
This principle s now been effectively abandoned.
Traditional Ppolicles were simply cbandoned.
The plans for reform were quietly abandoned.
He abandoned the army for politics.
She abandoned teaching career in favour of sport.
He glanced at Juliet accusingly and she looked sultably abashed.
Adlibis anabbreviation of the Latin phruse ‘ad libitum’ abhorrent adj.
Iind the idea totally abhorrent.
Both ‘players demonstrated their ability to hit the ball hard.
Fox's abilitles were soon recognized.
We will keep you informed to the best of our abilits.
The school does nothing for children of high ability.
It is much more difficultto teach a mixed-abilityclass.
There was high level of ability among the school leavers.
By the time firefighters were called the house waswell ablaze.
He is well able to take careof ‘himsel.
Once you've had some sleep you'll Jeel better able to cope.
Shie seems very able.
An 78:year-old man of no fixed abode appearedat Teessidemagistrates courtyesterdoy.
Some MPs want:o abolish the tax altogether.
Foreign exchange controls were largely abolished.
When she got pregnant at 16 she decided to have an abortion.
Women's groups are calling for Jfreecontraception and abortion on demand.
Once an abscess has burst it should be bathed with antiseptic liquid.
You will not be paid for the full perlod of absence.
My Jather did all thecooking in my mother's absence.
When it came to clearing up afterwards, Anne was conspicuous by her absence.
He asked for leave of absence from the army.
In the absence of stone, most houses in theareaare builtof wood.
Local people were conspicuously absent from the meeting.
He ‘played with an abandon that was strangely absent from s performance lost week.
He was absent from workfor two weeks.
Into Nutrientsareabsorbed into the bloodstream.
These committees were ‘graduallyabsorbed into the local government machine.
The information is presented so that it can bereadily absorbed.
His work absorbed ~himcompletely.
Ajigsauw puzzle can keep meabsor bed for hours.
He was totally absorbed in his book.
She found the whole concept faintly absurd.
His sense of the absurd kept him from becoming too solemn.
We were amazed by the sheer abundanceaf food.
Exoticplants grew there in great abundance.
The legal system is open to abuse.
She was subJected to regular sexual abuse.
The child had takena lotof emotional abuse.
He was subjected to a torrent of abuse.
They had to endure continual racial abuse.
Abuse ond scorn were heaped on the proposals.
The team wholost became a target of abuse for angryfans.
Calling someonestupid isdefinitely a term of abuse.
All thechildren had been physically and emotionally abused.
The distinction being 'madeis purely academic.
He later studied at the Royal Academsy.
The runners accelerated smoothly round the bend.
The car purred intolife and accelerated awas.
The Aids epldemic is accelerating dramatically.
There has been a rapid acceleration in the growthof industry.
This model has the best acceleration of anyavailable sportscar.
She puut her foot on the accelerator.
Sfe "hada pronounced Scottish accent.
American, middle-class, northern, etc.
Her French was excellent, without a trace of an accent.
She put on a posh accent when she answered the phone.
He lost hisnorthern accent after moving south.
In an ~ She spoke in a broad Midlands accent.
She graclously acceptedmy apolagy.
Some people readily accept that they may haveto pay for medical treatment.
The university cannot accept responstbility for ttems lost or stolen on its premises.
It is generally accepted that people are motivated by success.
Wemust come up with a solution that our shareholders will find acceptable.
Her breeding and background made her eminently acceptable in royal circles.
Yogurt is a perfectly acceptable substitute for cream in cooking.
Alternative medicines are now winning greater acceptance among doctors.
The idea was slow to gain general acceptance.
The group is now seeking formal acceptance.
Access (o this in formation is severely restricted.
Men and women should ‘have equal access to education and employment.
The new computer provides access toallthe files.
Some people are ‘being denied access to proper medical care.
He was finally granted access to the medical records.
The museum is easily accessible by public transport.
All the buildings are accessible for people in wheelchairs.
The garden is accessible from the lane.
The beach should be accessible to everyone.
Thecartoon strips are designed tomake Shakespeare accessible to children.
This silk scarf is the perfect accessory for stylish summer evenings.
If you were lying to the police, then you have been an accessory after the fact for allthese years.
In, have, meet with She met with an accident while on holiday in Spain.
He was badly hurt in an accident involving two cars and a lorry.
By pure accident he had come across thevery man who could solve the mystery.
It is noaccident that men fill most of the top jobs.
It happened, whether by accidentor design, that Steve and I were the last two people to leave.
Her latest novel has won great criticalacclaiin.
His discoveries earned him wide acclaim.
The play opened last week to universal acclaim.
She received international acclaim for her interpretation of Chopin.
This book has been widely acclaimed as a modern classic.
Four restourants have been awarded the highest accolade of a threestar roting.
It wasa large hall, wherea lot af people could be comfortably accommodated.
The car park can accommadate about 200 cars.
Many old people chaose 1 live in sheltered accommodation.
We need more secure accommaodation for young prisoners.
It s theduty of the local community to provide accommodation for the homeless.
Some accommaodation between conservation and tourism is essential.
They wereforced to rreach an accommodation with the rebels.
These winesalsomake agood accompaniment for vegetarian dishes.
Instrumental, musical, string, etc.
She sang to the accompaniment of guitars.
She become his unwitting accomplice in the robbery.
Sarah had become accamplished at running the house.
He came to London in 1976, already accomplished in the English language.
Her technical accomplishmenton the pianos startling.
In It is agreat accomplishment in singing to take the melodic line up1oa position of energy and hold it there.
Europe ondhe United States ~on an accord on environmental protection ~with They signed a trade accord with the Americans.
With His version of events does not accord fully with the fucts.
He gave usa blow-by-blow account of the incident.
She received a glowing account of her son’s progress.
Dr Richardsdescribes this very wellin hisaccount of the events.
I've never been there, but it's a lovely place by all accounts.
By his own account he had anunhappy childhood.
My husband and I have separate accounts.
They have a numbered account in Switzerland.
She opened @ savings account at the building society.
The money will be credited to your account tomorrouw.
She had taken all her money out of her account.
He opened an accountat a bank in Germany.
Try 10 keep accurate accounts.
Your accounts will need to be submitted to the tax office.
Charge this to my account, please.
Ring for acabon account.
The differences in achlevement between the pupils arepartly accountedfor by differences in age.
This process of centralization further weakens accountability.
There is a need for increased professional accountability.
The directors are held accountable by the shareholders.
Senior managers are directly accountable to the Board of Directors.
Local authorities should be publicly accountable to the communities they serve.
In the end, we are all accountable for our actions, to Politicians are accountable to Parlioment.
It had taken consideroble ‘creative accountancy’ on my part to produce a set of figures that showed usmaking any profit atall.
We talked to the company's chief accountant.
Dirt must not be allowed to accumulate.
Toxic chemicals tend to accumulate in the body.
The missiles are capable of very ‘highdegreeof accuracy.
Improve, increase We are hoping fa improve the accuracy of our forecasts.
Great care is taken to ensure the occuracy of research data.
Many people ‘began to question the accuracy of hisstatement.
It is possible (o predict the outcome with reasonable accuracy: accurate adj.
His predictions proved accurate.
The figures he gave were not strict.
He gave afull and accurate account of his movements.
They sank ino mutual accusation and incrimination.
She made a lot of thinly veiled accusations.
Their futher now faces an accusation of murder.
There seem 1o ‘bealotof wild accusations flying around.
He fled the country amid accusations of Jraud.
You made a public accusatior.
They openly accused her of dishonesty.
You can't accuse me of being selfish.
He stands accused of murdering his wifeand children.
She had grown accustomed ta his long absences.
He was well accustomed to hard work.
Serve Rafter has served fifteen aces in the match so far.
He changed his position ance again toease the ache in his back.
He was always complainingabout his various aches and pains.
She kept feeling the nagging ache in her heart.
She could hardly speak for the ache in her heart.
My feet ached badly.
My left Jfoot ached abit.
Her head felt hot and she was aching allover.
The present law has failed to achieve its abjectives.
Impressive, major, no mean, notable, outstanding, real, remarkable, significant, tremendous This was no mean achievement jar the government.
This conferencein itself constitutes a solid achievement.
InShe was given a prize for her achievementsin textile design.
To beaffered aplaceat sucha good university is quite an achievement.
He believes European civilization was the high point of human achievement.
Success should not be measured solely by educational achievement.
Climbing the mountain gave him a tremendous sense of achievement.
You will need a special chemical to neutralize the acid.
The peace settlement effectiveIy acknowledged the country's independence.
He acknowledged publicly that he might have made a mistake.
Mental iliness can exist for years before families are forced toacknowledge the truth.
The company duty acknowledged receipt of the letter.
This amounted 1o an acknowledgement that she had been wrong.
She merely nodded acknowledgement of his statement.
He raised his hand to her in acknawledgement.
She is still waiting for some acknauwledgement from her fellow academics.
He borrowed fram a number of sources, with due acknowledgement.
He had terrible acne when he was younger.
Doctors can treat acne with pills or creams.
Acne often clears up with a change indiet.
Into a casual acquaintance in town.
Hewas greeted as anold acquaintance.
Ifirst met Simon in 1998 and struck up an acquaintance with him.
He introduced me to a lady of his ac quaintance.
Frenchphilosophy * PHRASES have an acquaintance with They have little acquaintance with colloquial English.
On first acquaint- ‘ance she seemed.
Playing a game with the children is good wayof getting them acquainted.
Language acquisition begins in the first months af a baby's life.
The company has just made another acquisition.
The jury returned an acquital after anly seventeen minutes.
The trial judge had directed an acquittal.
The trial resulted in an acquittal.
The judge upheld their acquittal.
The UN must perform a difficult balancing act ‘betuween the twosides in the conflict.
For Jane, theact of writing was always difficult.
He was caught in the act of stealing.
The very act of writing out your plan clarifies what you need to do.
The old Act has now been repealed.
The company had breached the 1994 Companies Act.
The new Children's Act will come into force next year.
The Act contains regulations for banks and building societies.
Their new striker looks a class act.
The main act will come on at about ten o'clock.
He does a little song-anddanceact.
The king is killed in the opening act.
Don't take any notice —she's Just putting on.
The government must act promptly to change this law.
Jenny has been acting rather strangely recently.
His defence was that he had acted in good faith.
The jury accepted that he had acted in self defence.
George knew about the letter and acted accordingly.
The government needs to act against the sale of these dangerous toys.
His solicitors are continuing to act for him.
Stop acting like a spoilt child.
Alcohol acts quickly on the brain.
Weareallacting in the best interests of the children.
The film is spolled by some very wooden acting.
The situation calls for drastic action.
Disciplinary action will be taken against students who cheat.
The leaders have agreed on joint action to combat terrorism.
The emergency services swung into action as saon as the disaster was reported.
Only the priest can perform these actions.
We shall take whatever actions are necessary.
We have to galvanize people into action.
He is out of action following an ankle injury.
The government is taking strong actlon on refugees.
Her husband brought aclvil action against her after their divorce.
He was killed during enemy action.
Kllled/missing/wounded in action He was reported missing In actlon.
It's important to remain mentally active after retirement.
She has been active in local politics for some years.
There was a flurry of activity as the film star appeared on the balcony.
Newspapers report a higher level of activity in the foreign exchange markets.
Here's an activity you can do with mixed ability classes.
Involved in, engage in, participate In, take part in, undertake 17 suspect he may be involved in illegal actlvities.
Teachers here are not allowed to engage in any political activity.
It will only be possible to stimulate business activity with an injectlon of publicfunds.
The room was buzzing with actlvity.
The classroom was @ hive of activity as the children prepared Jor the concert.
Police watched the house allday, but there wasnosign of activily.
Lecturers are often frustrated actors who enjoy performing before @ live audience.
The same actor plays three different parts in the film.
He was one of many actors who auditioned for thepart of Hamilet.
My doctor recommended a course of acupuncture.
I'm having acupuncture Jfor a bad back.
Acupuncture has ‘been practised in Chinafor thousands of years.
Needles are inserted into specific acupuncture points in the body.
You can put your own smallads in local papers.
She twok out a fullpage ad in a women's magazine.
The ad appeared on all major channels.
In anithe~ A ot of claims are made in the ad.
The children have adapted wetl to the heat.
The company can easily adapt to changing demand.
We need to assess the new situation and adapt accordingly.
Some animals have a re- ‘markable ability to adapt to changing environments.
The radio ‘play had been adapted from a novel.
The classroom has been specially adapted to take wheelchairs.
Many old market buildings have proved highlyadaptable.
The vehicles arelarge and not easily adaptable tonewuses.
Adaptations in plants ‘occurover thousands of years.
The Antarctic species have few special adaptations for polar life.
The process of adaptation to a new school is difficult for some children.
He specializes in Screen adaptations of classic novels.
He added softly, ‘Imissed you.
Many young boys become computer addicts.
She had become addicted to tranquillizers.
Into A habit can easily become an addiction.
He stole money from his parents to feed his addiction.
She had an addiction to heroin.
Cocaine is a highly addictivedrug.
We have made several additions to the collection recently.
He worked it out through simple addition.
She can do addition, but she ‘hosn’t learned subtraction yet.
Please leave a contact address.
There was no turn address on the back of the envelope.
Please write your full postal address.
Cheyne Walk was very fushionable address.
I'm afraid there's nobody called Williams at this address.
Please inform usf any change of address.
The prime minister delivered the keynote address ot the conference.
He gave details of the policy in an address to party members.
She did not address him by name.
He never addressed her directly.
Headdressed his comments to the chairman.
The authors of the ‘book address themselves to the question of unemployment.
Hewas highly adept ot avoiding trouble.
The system is more than adeguate to deal with any problems.
The grants given to students are less than adequate.
Theamount of money we have been given is more or less adequate.
Theold computer i stitt perfectly adequate for ‘most tasks.
The tiles may not adhere properly if you donot use the correct glue.
The glue would not adhere to themetal surface.
This principle must be strictly adhered to.
The guidelines were not always fully odheredto.
The vineyards of Verzy lie adjacent to those of Verzenay.
There is a row of houses immediately adjacent to the factor.
Themiller's house stands adjacent to themill.
Attributiveadjectives precede the noun.
My isa possessive adjective.
Enterprising’ is notan adJective you would apply to him.
Predicative adjectives follow the noun.
At midday the meeting was odjourned for Iunch.
The inquest was adjourned pending further investigations.
Children are sensitive to disapproval and adjust their behaviour accordingly.
Salaries areadjusted for inflation.
It may takea little time to adjust to the climate here.
The strapsare fully adjustable to fit any size.
The mechanic made the ‘necessary adjustments to the engine.
The company's adjustment to the new marKets has been successful.
There was a long period of adjustment under the new boss.
The legislation was to be centrally administered by the Board of Education.
The college loses @ Lot of money through poor administration.
On Seplember 27 a new coalition administration was formed.
She had acted in ways that hefound wholly admirable.
Inwardly, I had a sneaking ad- ‘miration for them.
I'm full of admiration for him.
The wayhe dealt with the crisis filled me with admiration.
He gained the admiration of thousands of people.
As a writer she is certainly worthy of admiration.
Henever lost the admiration of his students.
In~ She stared at him in open admiration.
The picture was greeted with gasps of admiration.
Iy, really He admires you enormously.
She secrely admired and envied him.
You have toadmire thelr dedication and commitment.
What do you most admire about her? for I rather admire him for his determination.
He is widely cdmired os a journalist.
You can only admire her courage and determination.
Hestood back to admire his handiwork.
She was aluays surrounded byacircleaf admirers.
She soon gained ‘admirers in England and France.
The funeral was attended by thesinger's riends and admirers.
He's applied for admission to the local college.
This is a clear admission that you were wrong.
She has made no admission of any invotvement in the plot.
Ity She saw his leaving the company as an admission of Jailure.
By his own admission he ‘Should never have driven sofast.
He freely admitted that he had taken bribes.
Some ministers admit privately that unemployment could continue to rise.
He was honest enough to admit his mistake.
She would be the first to ‘admit that she is very difficult to work with.
She dared notadmither fear.
Ioath to, be reluctant to, be unwilling to, hate to, not care to I hate to adrit it, but I think he is right.
He had caused her more poin than she cared to admit.
Headmitted to feeling a bittired.
They were unable to gain admittance fo thehall.
The ticket will allow you admittance to the theatre.
She developed the problem in early adolescence.
The child has now been legally adoped.
She was forced to have her ‘baby adopted.
The policy has not yet been formally adopted.
She has decided to put the child up for adoption.
They were so happy when the adoption went through successfully.
The party an- ‘nounced the formal adoption of George Smith as their election cardidate.
The committee recommended the adoption of new safety procedures.
She absolutely adores her grandchildren.
He felt a surge of pure adrenalin as he won the race.
Course, flow, pump, surge The adrenalin was coursing through his system.
Their boat had been set adrift.
She had been cut adrift from everything she had known.
This book will definitely appeal to teen- ‘ogers and young adults.
The number of single ‘adult households has doubled in the past 30 years.
What consenting adults do in private is their own business.
Isimply can't believe that responsible adults allowed a child to wander the streets.
Shespent her entire adult life caringfor others.
Headmitted adultery with several women.
His problems began in early adult- ‘hood.
Her childhood problems persisted into adult- 'hood.
Allied, British, German, etc.
The regiment made an advance on the enemy lines.
The general ordered an advance 1o thefrontline.
The publishers have ‘paid meanadvance.
He waspaid £5 000 asanadvanceon royalies.
The roops adanced into central Europe.
The army advancedon the capital.
He advanced towards mein aggressive style.
Society needs to advance beond prejudiceand superstition.
The disease was too far advanced Jor doctors to operate.
Supervisor PHRASES an opportunity for advancement There cre ‘good appartunities for advancement within the company.
Breasgfeeding affers a clear advantage (o your baby.
The company has an unfair advantage over its competitars.
These computers have the added advantage of being cheap.
The plan would be to our mutual advantage.
He would gain considerable advantage from staying in that jab.
Another qualification would give mea big advantage at job interviews.
The commanders were keen to press home their advantage with a further offensive in the north.
They argue that the possibl risks attached to such vaccines vastly outweigh any adventages.
There may be some advantage in laying down a clearer procedure.
East coast resarts have the advantage over west coast ones.
The bright lighting showed the jewels to their best advantage.
We toak full advantage of the hotel Sacilities.
Membership of the union could prove advantageous.
Lower fares make it advantageous (o trave! in winer.
You may find It advantageous to wait a few weeks before replying.
The new tax system is advantageous to higher-rate taxpayers.
We had a little adventure yesterday.
Those of sou looking for adventure can shoot the rapids.
Perhaps the war offered adventure, travel, ause for his gifs.
Our trip to London was quite an adventure for the children.
The journey began cheerfully with a sense of adventure.
The British considered him a warthy adversary.
The two of them were old adversaries.
She took out a full-page advert in amagazine.
The advert appeared in ‘The Guardian'.
The advert featured a dolphin swimming cround a goldfish bowl.
In althe~ A lot of claims are madein the advert.
These products hove been advertised very heavily.
There are plans to advertise the job more widely.
Weare advertising for a babysitter.
The classified advertisements are on page 25.
We placed advertisements in a number of national newspapers.
Television ‘and rodio refused to carry advertisements for the record.
In althe ~ A ot of claims are made in the advertisement.
That's very sound advice.
Go (0 your doctor and sk for advice.
She asked her mother's advice.
The Local Authorily runs an aduice centre in the town.
Permission was given against the aduice of the planning officers.
On the aduice of his experts he bought another company.
Here is some advice for pregnant women.
Cun you give me some adtice on where to buy good maps?~to My advice 0 you would beto waita fewmonths.
We thought it advisable to seek police assistance.
It isalways advisable tomake a will.
We can advise parents about education.
They advised me against sending cash by post.
Wewill be huppy toadviseon any financial matters.
John would be ill advised to rely on their support.
You would be better advised 10 consult an accountant.
Please keep me advised of ‘new developments in this cose.
The duke was the king’s most trusted adviser.
She acts asan adviser to the president.
She’s a staunch advocate of freetrade.
He is oneaf the leading advocates for a more modern style of worship.
Heart specialists strongly advocate low-cholesterol diets.
These policies have been widely advocated.
The aerial receives signals from the ground.
In, go in, travel in I've never Jlown inan aeroplane.
The aeroplene was carrying 350 people.
The presidentwas never on the aeraplane at all.
She saw the whole affair as great joke.
He's having anaffair witha colleague.
If's the story of a secret affair betueen ‘amarried teacher and her teenagestudent.
What 1 do at the weekend is my afJair:no affalr of sb's That's no affir of yours.
The Cabinet will be discussing certain affairs of state.
Sales did rot seem unduly offected.
Her deathaffected him deeply.
He was held in great affection by hundreds of students.
Hejust wantsa bitof affection.
She ‘hadriedhard to win hisaffection.
He'll be remembered with genuine affection.
The feacher showed affection towards all her puplls.
He hasa natural affinity with numbers.
If's important that you share an offinity with your husband.
Many giris do show an affinity for craft skills.
Jo feels a great affinity towards Pamela.
Inhis poems heshowed some affinity with Coleridge.
He's badly afflicted with a skin disorder.
He took his son’s desertion as a personal affront.
This remark caused affront tomany people.
The children set their new boat afloat on the lake.
He s struggling to keep afloat after a series of emotional and health problems.
They ‘had tosell their assets 10 keep the business afloat.
Iy He was half fruid to look at her.
You do know, don'tyou? You are just afraid to tellme.
Hestopped abrupily, suddenlycfvaidtosay the words out loud.
Roger was very afraid for her.
Charlie is afraidof marriage.
There's nothing to be afraid of.
We spent the afternoon sitting by the pool.
Afternoon tea is served on the terrace.
He was sent away to school at an early oge.
He was still active even at the advanced age of 7.
White hair is a sign of great age.
Yook She was beginning to feel her age (= feel that she was getting old).
The voting agewas lowered from 21to 18 years.
Atyour age, I hod already started work.
He could read by the age of four for sb's~ He's quitea big boy for his age.
Twelve million people in Great Britain are over retirement age.
It i illegal to sell alcohol to children who are under age (= notlegally old enough).
He left school at the age of 186.
The general age of consent for sexual activity is 16, sb's own age She needs @ “friend of her ouwn age to play with.
He's 20 yearsof age.
This exquisite little hotel seemed t0 belong toa different age.
He lived during the Elizabethan age.
In an age when few women became politicians, her career was unusual.
I've been sitting here for absolutely ages.
Carlos left ages ago.
The shock has aged her considerably.
He had put on weight and aged a agent littl.
This wine has notaged well.
Details of the problem will be logged by the Help Desk staff who will then contact the appropriate agency.
He managed to find a job throughanagency.
An 16 pointagenda was drawn up for the meeting.
He accused the government of having a hidden agenda.
The party has a rather narrow political agenda.
The callege needs to draw up an agenda for change.
We were following an agenda set by the students themselves.
The question of pay had been left off the ogenda.
Onaithe~ Safety at work is on the agenda for next montl's meeting.
An expensive holiday is definitely off the agenda this year (= not sth we can consider).
We have an agreed agenda for action.
In our company, quality is high on the agenda.
Next on the agenda is deciding where we're going 1o live.
Improving trade between the two countries will be top of the agendaat the talks.
The company has developed sales through local agents in key markes.
She got the work through an agent.
As a double agent, ‘e worked for the Americans and the Russians.
The charity is anagentfor social change.
Their negative reac tions have greatly aggravated the situation.
The president an- ‘nounced that the country would not tolerate foreign aggression.
He managed to channel his aggression into sport.
Aggression by one nationality against another often leads to war: towards It showed no aggression towards other dogs.
Watching violence on TV makes some children moreageressive.
Her mood became openly aggressive when his name was mentioned.
He warned that his dog was aggressive towardsstrangers.
James was rather aggrieved at Cameron.
The villagers felt deeply aggrieved by the closing of the railwaystation.
Iadmired his considerable mentalagility.
He jumped over the wall with surprising agility.
He sounced very agitated on the phone.
She's agitated about getting there on time.
In an agitated state By now he was in a very agitatedstate.
He could not hide his agltation.
He knocked his glass over in his agitation.
Shewas wriggling on the seat with agitation.
The organization is turning to political agitation in order to achieve ifs aims.
There has been mass agitation against the president.
The liule creature squirmed in its death agonies.
He endured agonies of loneliness and misers.
They went through agony in the search for their missing relatives.
She was cousing David great deal of agony.
She mumbled an apology in an agonyof embarrassment.
It is generally agreed that more funding is needed for education.
Thar's true, she agreed gravely.
I'm inclined toagree there's nothing we can do.
We don't always agree about everything.
I'm sure you'll agree that this issueisvitally important to thesuccess of the company.
Edith Harlow has kindly agreed to help.
It was provisionallyagreed that 12 August was to bethedate.
We must just agree todisagreeonthis point.
It all sounds very agreeable.
He finds her very agreeable.
She did her best to make herself agreeabe.
We tried to negotiate @ mutually agreeablesolution.
Hewas perfectly agreeable to the idea.
The drajt agreement will be available two weeks before the meeting.
Iy) binding The agreement will be legally binding.
We are working towards a formal ceasefire agreement.
Into, reach, sign After hours of talks the government and the union have reached an agreement.
We have an agreement to aluays tell each other the truth about eversthing.
We signed the agreement so we are now bound by it.
You have not kept to our agreement.
Same employers reneged on agreements once the recession set n.
Under the agreement, the farmer is not allowed to use this field.
They signed twa agreements on improving economic co-operation.
He sued the company Jor breach of agreement.
The termsaf the agreement danotallow such expors.
The separation is by mutualagreement.
Lo, in~with I am in agreement with you that she should be given more responsibilities.
There s agreement among teachers that changes need to be made.
Asyet thereis no agreement betuween the two sides.
As yet there is no agreement on policies.
Legal aid (- government money for legal advice) is @ fundamental part of our system of Justice.
The country relies on foreign aid © VER3 + AID appeal for, call for The country's prest.
The British government has now suspended humanitarian aid tothearea.
We enlisted theaid of John and his family.
Shescreamed loudly and two people came t her aid.
She is now able to walk with the aid afastick.
He served asan aide to the former president.
Six cases of Alds have been reported.
Alds a worldwide campaign to prevent the spread of Alds.
Igotall the usual childhood aitments.
It is important to ‘havea clear aim inview.
Simple truth must be the highest aim of any real enquiry.
Although the repart ‘cavers many areas, its underlying aim is to ensure that another accident never happens.
His ultimate aim was to force the prime minister to resign.
The express aim of the treaty i to keep the whale region free from nuclear weapons.
You will have to work hard to achieve your aim.
They were intent on furthering their aims.
She started the organization with theaim of helping local peaple.
His aim was poor and he missed the target.
Hetook aim at the target and fired.
The initiative is aimed at helping young people.
He is aiming forawin in this race.
She aimed the gun stralght at the infruder.
Aim for his legs, not his body.
The air was sweet with incense.
Nothing moved in the still air.
It's difficult carrying such heavy loads in the thin air of the mountains.
The air was thick with cigarette smoke.
Music illed the night air.
Iin, suck in Land crabs breathe air and cannot swim.
She gulped in the fresh mountain air.
She was gasping for air as she ran out of the burning house.
Thedog stretched and sniffed the air.
The tang of some wild herb hung in the air.
The cool night air wafted in the open windows.
Spicy smells wafted through the air.
The market is held in theopen air.
It only takes three hours by air.
The hideaut is clearly visible from theair.
The two planes collided in mid air.
You havean air of authority.
He leaned towards Melissa with an air of great confidentiality.
The issues were openly aired anddiscussed by the group.
His passion is making modelaircraft.
The aircraft was flown by ayoung Americanpilot.
The pilot overshol the runway and crashed his aircraft.
To be ‘an aceyou had toshoot down five enemyaircraft.
The aircraft s due to take of at midnight.
The aircraft taxied along the runway.
He claimed that aircraft noise was the worst form of air pollution in London.
Heperates a private airline.
The airiine operates mainly between Florida and Puerto Rico.
All scheduled airline services will be affected bythestrike.
We will fly from Chicago’s O'Hare airport.
The plane touched down at Glasgow airport just before midday.
Into), drift into, enter, fly into, stray into, violate The jet had crossed into Russian airspace.
They have decided to open their airspace to commercial aircraft.
In~ The glider was in Dutch airspace.
They werenowout of contratled airspace.
The president said that all future violations of our airspace would result in serious consequences.
She was wearing ‘something akin toa pineapple on her head.
There is growing public alarm at this Increase in crime.
Craate, provoke The head teacher’s policies have provoked alarm among parents.
Many people have expressed alarm at the plans.
His face registered no alarm at all when I told him the news.
In~Heshouted out in alerm.
To her parents’ alarm, she announced that she intended (o travel the world.
The news has been greeted with alarm.
There has been considerable alarm about thenew proposals.
He loves spreading alarm and despondency.
Isee no causefor alarm, as she often arrives late.
The fire service was called out, but it was a Jfalsealarm.
The guard raised the alarm when he discovered that six prisoners had escaped.
Lizzie was carrying a rape alarm but it wasout of reach in her handbag.
Setmy alarm for 6.
Unfortunately any little notse can setoff the alarm.
The ire brigade recommends that every house is fitted with a smoke alarm.
Suddenly the alarm sounded and they all "had 1o leave the building.
Bookan alarm call f youneed to make an early start.
She began to grow alarmed when she realized how lateitwas.
The government is not unduty alarmed by these figures.
She was alarmed at the prospect of travelling alone.
Iwasslightlyalarmed by what Susan told me.
The doctors ‘have decided to keep him in hospital overnight but there is nothing to be alarmed about.
Their best-selling album has won three awards.
Ir's the singer's first soloalbum.
The singer recorded her second album in Los Angeles.
She has not put out @ new album this year.
His Latest album comes out in the spring.
You need to be careful how many units of alcohol you drink in a week.
The driver ‘had more than the permitted level of alcohol in his blood.
Most drinkers do not abuse alooholat all.
People canfind it hard to admit they have an alcohol problem.
Howe was turning into an alcoholic because of the stress of his job.
Three people in the fomily suffer from alcoholism.
This pub specializes in fine ales.
Fresi: barrelsof ale were brought up from the cellar.
He drank severatpints of ale.
His sudden disappearance triggered a red alert among his friends.
Issued after four men escaped from the prison.
They ‘rang the church bells to sound the alert and the villagers then fled.
You should aluways be on the alert for anyone who looks suspicious.
The securityforces are now on Jull alert.
Thousands of ‘policewere put onfull lert atall mainroads leading to the city.
The army was yesterday placed on Stateof alert in case of more riots.
The machine should help to keep thepilot alert.
There was a noise outside and he was suddenly alert.
He was as mentally alert as ‘@man half his age.
She'sdoing her A levels this year.
She has four A levels.
He car’tcome out—he's revising for his A levels.
He's got A levels in maths and history.
After her escape from prison, Claire Potter adopted the alias Margaret Smith.
Five yearsago he had lived in France under an alias.
She was in the of: Jficeallof Wednesday and so hasa cast-iron alibi.
The accused was nat able to provide an alibi for theevening.
During the war; he was imprisoned as an enemyalien.
It was an act of violence that she found alten and shocking.
They spokea language totally alien to him.
There is growing feeling of alienation among young unemployed pecple.
His clothing caught alight.
The ire should be well alight by now.
The children's eyes werealight with excitement.
He argued that important historical sites were aligned along straight lines of mystic energy.
Thispillar is roughly aligned with the athers.
Thegroup does not wanttoalign itself too closely with the government.
The door needs to be in alignment with the frame before you start work an it.
It is very difficult to mainiain the alignment between the two countries since the trade dispute.
Britain formed a close alignment with Eeypt in the last century.
Though John and Andrew look exactly alike, they act quite differently.
The two towns are very much alike in size and ‘population.
Dociors fought to keep her alive.
The old rascal is still very much alive.
For four days he seemed barely alive.
Twasn't sure if he was still alive.
My mather is still alive and kicking.
At any moment he may turn up alive and well.
The police are desperate to catch this man dead or alive.
Jt was a very narrow escape and we are lucky to be alive.
Poor child, she looks more dead than alive.
The city comes alive at night.
The wealth of detail in his book really brings it alive.
She realized that she had only been half alive for the last Jfour years.
His ees were suddenly alive with excitement.
The hall was alive with the sound of vaices.
The ald customs are still very much aliveinthisregion.
The art of debate is alive and wellin our schools.
He remained keenly alive ta the dangers.
The defendants in the libel case maintain that their allegations are true.
There have been fresh allegatonsof atrocities.
The ‘minister has the right to answer specific allegatians.
It took over two months to disprote the allegation.
The sudden collapse of the business led toallegations of corrupt deals.
He has resigned amid corruption allegations.
He has made certain alle- ‘gations against the compansy.
We will give our full allegiance to the party and everything it believes in.
It is hard to keep up with the changing allegiances between the various political partles.
He owed his allegiance to the organization that had given him all his opportunities.
The rebelsnow have toswear allegiance to the queen they hate.
Many people have abandoned their traditional party allegiances.
The various splinter groups all claim allegiance to the true spirit of the movement.
Catholicism claims alle- ‘glance from more than 80% of the population.
He is now very rich but his allegiance to his working-classorigins is stillstrong.
Every day the schoolchildren pledge an oath of allegiance (o their country.
Hair and feathers can couse allergies.
Hedeveloped an allergy to pollen.
These problems have been greatly alleviated by the passing of the new Act.
These measures are designed t alleviate the situation.
Iittleiothing to Her wordsdid little to alleviate his fears.
The alley leads to thevillage square.
In anithe~ They had cornered him in an clley.
She wandered through the back alleys.
The organization is a broad alliance of many different groups.
The uneasy alliance betueen such different people Just cannot last.
Into, forge, form, make, strike up The government has tried to forge altiances with environmentalists.
They broke off the alliance with Sparta.
Britain and France ~with an alliance with Germany allied adj.
Hisdecision to move to Londor is closely allied to his ambition to become manager of the company.
The party is allied with the Communists.
Local authorities have to learn to allocateresources efficiently.
More money should be allocated for famine reLief to More funds will now be allocated to charitable or- ‘ganizations.
The school gave them a generous allocation of money with which to purchase books.
You may be entitled to a housing allowance if you are in a low-paid job.
The company glves me a travel allowance.
The weekly allowancefor each child is £15.
He makes several allusions tothese events in his latest book.
Chartes remained a close ally of the French king.
Portugal isa traditional ally of England.
European, NATO, Western, etc.
Jane felt that she had an ally.
He now had an ally against his boss.
These islands are too small to stand alone as independent states.
Ifelt vuinerable and very muich alone.
Carol felt all alone in the world.
He felt lost and completely alone.
With She did not want to be alone with him.
Some peaple find her aloof and unfriendly.
Some thought that Britain was standing aloof from Europe.
There were many things that had kept her aloof and apartfrom the crowd.
He has remained largely aloof from the hurly-burly of parliomentary politics.
Helen and Tony knelt at the altar.
He loy prostrate before the high altar.
Hehadnot altered greatly in the last ten years.
Unemployment has come down slightly but this does not alter the foct that it is stillamajor problem.
There will be no alteration in corporation fax.
We will have to make a slight alteration to the plans.
We have two alternatives.
His idea seemed to affer a possible alternative.
We'll have to find an alternative.
She ad no alternative but 10 do as he said.
He was left with noalternative butto hobble to the nearest telephone box.
The plone took off andclimbed tocruising altitude.
The aircraft maintained an altitude of 26 000feet.
The avilors reported the columns of smokerising toan altitudeof 2000eet.
The plone suddenly startedtolosealtitude.
No trees will grow at that altitude.
International affairs today are no longer for gentleman amateurs.
His skill as a dancer really amazed me.
It never ceases {0 amaze me what some people will dofor money.
Frances was amazed af her sudden strength.
Sheraised her eyebrows in mockamazement.
He stared at the animal in amazement.
To her amazement she got the job.
Laura looked around her with amazement.
He expressed amazement at being leftoutof the match.
The King sent an ambassador to Paris.
The US ambassador was re called to Washington in protest.
In the Israeli ambassador in London ~to He served asambassador to Syria.
There is a degree of ambiguityin this statement.
The document has been carefully written to avoid ambiguity.
Ambiguity arises when students' spoken English is very limited.
There will always be some ambiguity ‘about what actually happened.
There was some ambiguity inwhat he said.
The paragraph is rendered ambiguous by the writer's carelessuseaf pronouns.
She's a woman of driving ambition.
He's got little ambition.
Her biggest ambition was to climb Everest.
This is a tal of jealousy and thwarted ambitions.
He had only one ambition in Iife.
Hefeltgreat resentment at having his ambition frustrated.
He is a highly ambitious politician.
Shels very ambitious for her four children.
The document expressed some ambivalence over the doctrine of predestination.
She viewed her daughter’s education with ambivalence.
Shefelt a certain ambivalence towards him.
The party's pasition on nuclear weapons is deeply ambivalent.
Don't worry—the ambulance is on s way.
When the ambulancecame, Icarried her out.
She was rushed to hospital by air ambulance.
In anithe~ He went in the ambulance with Lizzy.
The soldiers lay in ambush for the enemy troops.
Tiey staged anambush on.
Into, walk Into We ran into an ambush in thevalley.
Twelve men were killed in the ambush.
The manager was mast amenable:nothing was too much trouble.
You should find him amenable to reasonable arguments.
The commitee does not adequately consult others when drafting amendments.
He moved an amendment limiting capital purishment to certain very serious crimes.
She withdrew her amendment and left the meeting.
Parliament accepted the amendment and the bill was passed.
The programme is subject toamendment.
The new clause was accepted without amendment.
The campsite is close to all local amenities.
The building will be developed as ¢ publicamenity.
The hotel has excellent amenities.
They will provide an amenity for local residents.
Thelats lacked basic amenities.
I've only met Jane once but she seems amiable enough.
They issued live ammunition to the troops.
The government granted an amnesty to all political prisoners.
He was released from prison under an amnesty.
He drank copious ‘amounts of beer.
Mix the colours in equal amounts.
Top wateralso contains varying amounts of rust and grit.
They want to limit theamount of cash avatlable.
The amount of reclaimed glass used in industr has doubled in the last five years.
Her discomfort amused him greatly.
The thought of me on the stageseemed to amuse him.
He amused us with his stories.
She looked fuintly amused.
He kept the children amused for hours.
He was much ‘amused by all thistalk.
Iwas notat allamused tofind they had eatenall the cake.
Mr Stopes was clearly amused by the confusion.
Tony was very amused af the story.
She ‘seemed greatly amused by his jokes.
There was @noteof amusement in her voice.
Iam happy to haveafforded you amusement.
He seemed to be deriving amusement from her discomfort.
Her wide mouth twitched in amusement.
She chuckled with amusement.
His son s @ constant source of amusement to him.
She disapproved of popular amuserents such as foirs.
There is nothing even remotely amusing about the situation.
He was givena general anaesthetic.
Theoperation was completed in ten minutes using only local anaesthetic.
She had a local anaesthetic tostop the pain.
The anaesthetic began to take effect.
It would have to be done under anaesthetic.
They had to operate withoutanaesthetic.
The two situations areroughly analogous.
The national debt is analosgous with privatedebt.
She drew an analogy between running the economy and a housewife’s weekly budget.
The Wild West analogy does notfit here.
We can understand this theory by analogy with human beings.
She suggested an analogy between the humon heart and a pump.
The computer is a useful analogy for the brain.
Thereis ananalogy here ith the way an engine works.
Argument from analogy is notalways valid.
The results must beanalysed in detail.
The precise reasons for the disaster are difficult toanalyse.
They carried out an in-depth analysis of the results.
Analysis of the wine showed that it contained dangerous adaitives.
In anithe ~ In his analysis of the navel he discusses various aspects of the author’s own life.
In the final analysis, the king's power was greater than the bishop's.
He wasa shrewd analyst of players' strengths and weaknesses.
Thedefeatof the government would lead toanarchy.
Tre Dparties joined forces to save the country from anarchy.
He washit in a rather sensitive part of his anatomy.
The two species share a common ancestor.
The Romans built these monuments to glorify their illus.
Alot of the people there are descended from a common ancestar.
The two species have developed from a cammon ancestry.
She shares @ commaon ancestry with the Queen.
We can trace our ancestry back to the 16th century.
He isof Chinese ancestry.
The ship cast anchor in the bay.
We drapped anchar of a small island.
We raised the anchor and set sail.
Weweighed anchor next morning and sailed south.
The shiplayatanchor in the bay.
The crane is securely anchored at two points.
Theropes were anchored tathe rocks.
Theman looked positively ancient.
She is good at telling anecdotes.
We swapped anecdotes about old friends.
He liked to think of himself as an avenging angel fighting for justice.
Deboral's chlidren are little angels.
Lisa in the role of ministering angel.
Catherine appeared in the doorway, shaking with righteous anger.
Children give vent 1o their anger in various ways.
It is nat healthy to suppress sour anger.
His words fuelled her anger.
His joy soon turned to anger when he heard the full story.
Henry stood up, his anger rising.
The anger drained from his face.
Her anger subsided as quicklyas it had flared up.
He raised his voice in anger.
His face was flushed with anger.
Ifelt a sudden anger at his suggestion.
There is much anger over plans 1o close the ‘haspital.
The plane started descending ata steep angle.
The instrument hos a wide angle of view.
The calf’s legs were splayed out atawkward angles.
The vertical line makes an angle with the horizontal line.
Draw a 130° angle in your exercise books.
She adjusted the angle of the legs to make the table stand more Sfirml.
The tower of Pisa leans at an angle.
The subject is considered from an unusual angle.
The variety of camera angles gives her photographs interest.
We've looked at the problem from every possible angle but still haven't found a solution.
Seeing herself from this angle, she realized how like her mother she looked.
She couldn't stay angry with ‘him for long.
That man makes me angry every time Lsee him.
Local people are very angry about the plans to close another hospital.
The members of the group are frustrated and angry at their lack of power with Igotterribly angry with him.
The loss of a pet can cause some people real anguish.
He suffered the anguish of watching his son go to prison.
In her anguish, she turned to her jather for help.
His ‘mouth felt dry with anguish.
All the pain and anguish inside her rose like a tidal wave.
He was pacing the room like a caged animal.
In court he was banned Jfrom keeping animals.
This animalcan be trained tofol.
Despite everything, she bore her former boss noanimosity.
They managed to discuss their past dis.
The two rivals for party leadership insist that there is no animasity ‘between them.
She has long legs and slender ankles.
In sth We waded through the river,ankle deep in mud.
The territory had been annexed to Poland.
They were fo surrender immediately or face total annihilation.
They held celebrations to mark the anniversary of Mozart'sdeath.
Theanniversary of the Jounding of the charity falls on 12th November.
He bought her a diamond ring on their tenth wedding anniversary.
The company proudly announced the launch of its new range of cars.
Mr and Mrs James are pleased to announce the engagement of their daughter, Henrietta.
Baker issued his surprise announcement in Parisafter two hours of talks.
In an announcement to Parliament, the minister said that the peace negotiations would contine.
The station announcer warned us that the train was running late.
Intensely, really His air of calm superiority annoyed her intensels.
It really annoys me when peaple Jorget to 50 thank you.
The wasps were be- ‘ginning toannoy me.
She tapped the table with her pen in obvious annoyance.
Hefelta violent surge of annoyance.
He had been causing annoyance to the other guests.
She tried not toshow her annayance.
In~ He shook his head in annoyance.
Her cheeks flushed with annoyance.
There was a look of annoyance on his face.
His attitude made me extremely annoyed.
We enjayed the gome but were rather annoyed at being beaten.
Twas quite annayed by her remarks.
Susan feltslightly annoyed with herself annoying adj.
Please stop making that notse—it's getting annoying.
This British author has chosen to live in relative anonymity on a Pacific island.
Some people prefer theanonymity of life in a big city.
My client wishes {o remain anonymous.
The hort answer to your query is that he has acted completely illegally.
Please give her your ansiwer; so she can make the iecessary arrangements.
Ithink you can guess the answer—they won'tlend us the mones.
The answer came in a postcard she sent from Devon.
In answer to your enquiries, I can only say that we did not find her work of a satisfactory standard.
The abuious answer would be to cancel the party.
We are aware of this problem, but we do not have the answer.
We have arrived at an arswer which we hope will satisfy everyone.
If sou want to save time, this machine will provide theanswer.
There is noeasyanstver to the problem.
He's soarrogant, ‘hethinks he knows all the answers.
If'snot worth guessing the answer, as you may lose marks.
Please print theansivers to questions 1 9.
In the affirmative Ske answered in theaffirmative.
He tried to answer as hanestly os he could.
What he told me does not fully answer the question of what his motives were.
She felt nothing but ‘antaganism towards her bass.
He seems to have an antagonism to the local people.
The new rules will create alotof antagonism.
We have put together an anthology of children's poetry.
The essay first appeared in an anthol.
Social anthropology examines familyrelationships in detail.
The doctor put her on a course of antibiotics.
It iswidely anticipated that she will resign.
We look forward to your lecture with eager anticipation.
There is ‘growing anticipation that the prime minister will have to resign.
We are full of antici- ‘pation, and can't wait tovisit you.
People are buying extra groceries in antici- ‘pation of heavy snowstorms.
The unexpected news sent a thrill of anticipation through the group.
The youngsters got up to all sorts of amusing antics.
She was laughing at his antics.
The doctor ad- ‘ministered an antidote.
Quinine is a natyral antidote for this fever: ~to Wedo not havean effective antidote to this poison.
The resort offers the perfect antidote to the pressures of ‘modernlife.
Despite his personal antipathy to me he wasstill able to be polite.
There was a lot of antipathy between the two doctors.
Ifeel a profound antipathyto using any weapon.
Jlost in The origins of this ancient structure are lost in antiguity.
Egyptian, Greek, Roman, otc.
He collects Egyptian and Roman antiquities.
You should put someantiseptic on that cut.
Thecompany represented the antithesis of everything headmired.
She felt nogging anxiety that could not be relieved.
The mothers were able to share their anxieties with each other.
The more reports I study the moremyanxiety grows.
There areanxieties over the effects of unemployment.
They wereencouraged ( expresstheir fears and anxisties.
The bus was late and Sue began togetanzious.
Thedelays only made him more anxious.
She was watching the clock and becoming increasingly anxfous.
Finalyear students are naturally anxious about getting work after graduation.
There's no need to get unduly anxious on myaccount.
I'm becoming very anxious about my son.
We are extremely anxious for her safety.
I'm looking for an apartment on the east side of the city.
Once defeated, he sank into apathy.
Such attitudes canonly lead to apathy.
Barney sounded almost apologetic.
He was profusely apologetic about the mistake.
She was apologetic for taking so long.
He apologized profusely for the damage he had caused.
She apologized for being late.
He apologized 1o his colleagues.
We expect a full written apology.
She certainly owes sou an apology.
Please accept my sincere apologies.
Ject She rejected my apology, saying it was notenough.
He backed out arrogently and without apology.
Apologies have been received from the Browns.
They had to wait for hours in the most appalling weather.
It soon became apparent that the company was losing money.
He made it apparent that he was very annoyed.
His unhappiness was alt too apparent.
The extent of thelr injuries was not immediately apparent.
Local suspicion of the incomers was painfully apparent.
His lack of experience was quite apparent to everyone.
Shegazed at him in muteappeal.
They made a direct ap- ‘pealtothe government for funding.
He's lodged anappeal against the size of the fine.
The court will hear the appealon 10 June.
His appeal was upheld and he was reteased immediately.
Jor leniency~to an appeal to the High Court * PHRASES a courtof appeal, give/grant sb leave to appeal, grounds of appeal, pending appeal The players ‘have been suspended pending appeal.
You havetheright of appeal to the Consitutional Court.
An appeat is to be launched on behalf of the refugess.
Unfortunately, the film lacks commercial appeal.
His views hald no appeal Jfor me.
We are trying to broad enthe appeal of classical music.
His considerable appeal lies in his quiet, gentle manner.
School lost its appeal for her in the second year.
Police have oppealed to the public or infor- ‘mation about the crime.
She appealed unsuccessfully against her conuiction for murder: to He has decided to appea (o the Eurapean Court.
The prospect of teaching such bright children oppecled enormously.
The idea of retiring eariy really appeals tome.
These characters will appeal directly to children’s imaginations.
The large salary made their offer even more appealing to him.
Ifind his manner very appealing.
These toys are not immediately appealing to children.
She Is currently appearing at the Liverpool Playhouse.
He will ppear at Manchester Croun Court next week.
The man will appear before mogistrates in Birmingham later today.
Inside, (he house had the appearance of a temple.
The repart gives an appearance of scientific credibility.
Shaving ‘off his beard changed his appearance dromatically.
When she lost all her money, she was determined 1o keep up oppearances (= hide the true situation and pretend that everything was going well).
To judge by appearances, Roger was rather emborrassed.
He was taken to hospital witha burstappendix.
Doctors had to take out his cppendix.
She might have to have her appendixout.
If the condition is not treated, the oppendix can rupture.
The symptams of depression can include poor oppetite and weight loss.
She hod no appetite and begen to loseweight.
After week she hod rezained her appetite.
All that digging has given me an appetite.
The cold air had given an edge tomy appetite.
Some drugs con suppress the appeite.
This is something you can eat betuween meals without ruining your appetite.
This meal will satisfy even the healthiest appetite.
His oppetite hos returned tonormal.
The BBC recagnizes the public appetite or serious information.
Reading the first story whetted my appetite formare.
The audience applauded loudly.
The decision to save the com- ‘pany has been warmly applauded.
His effortsto help people should be applauded.
To muted applause asmall flag wasraised over the building.
The crowd gave them around of applause.
The speech drew loud applause.
The audience broke into applause.
She stood back and acknowledged the applause of thecrowd.
Wild applause greeted thisremark.
The applause died down as the curtain closed.
He left the stage to thunderous applause.
Add some sugar to the stewed apple—it'sstilla bittart.
He just sat there munching on anapple.
Aluways switch off appliances that arenot in use.
Many household appliances are expensive to run.
The rules have now been made equally applicable to all members.
The theory does not seem easily applicable in this case.
The offer isonly applicable for journeys made during theweek.
The law is applicable to everyone.
Unsuccessful applicants may appeal against the decision.
The advertisement attracted a number of applicants.
Eighieen applicants were shordlisted.
All applicants should apPplyinwriting.
Therewere over fifty applicants for the job.
Assistant Editor has been successful.
In, ‘submit The applicant must ile a written application to the court.
Applications are inited for the past of Lecturer in French.
His application for bail was granted.
Admission is obtained by writien application.
The program is designed for general application.
You can run several appl cationsat the same time.
These principles apply equally in all cases.
These restrictions donatapply tous.
British companies are subJect to international laws and the same applies to com- ‘paniesin Europe.
Apply the insecticide sparingly.
Apply the glue evenly over both surfaces.
The hospital needs to allow more time for outpatient appointments.
I'd like to make an appointment to see the doctor, please.
Tom has been given an appointment at the local hospital.
He failed to keep ‘his appointment.
She has already broken threeappointments.
Viewing s only allowed by appointment.
He called without an appoiniment.
Employees may not hold anyother appointments.
He wasaffered an appointment in the Education Department.
He takes up hisappointment in January.
Miss Green resigned her ppointment as our regional representative.
By reorganizing the church hierarchy, the king was able to secure the appointment of men whom he personally favoured.
Thecompany hasannounced five key appointments atits Teessideplant.
He was asked 10 give an independent appraisal.
She made a quick appraisal of the ther guests.
Interview We are holding staff appraisalinterviews.
The sound quality was Ppoor sawe couldn’t fully appreciate the music.
We do really \appreciate your help.
Iully appreciate sour concern.
We willdo all in our power to help.
The problems should be easily appreciated.
The government failed to ‘appreciate the fact that voters were angr.
She gazed inappreciation at thescene.
Il be sending them a donation in appreciation of thelr help.
Thank you,' she murmured, with heartfelt appreciation.
There is a growing appreciation of the need for change.
The helped me to gain a deeper appreciation of what scientific research involves.
She had no appreciation of the difficulties we were facing.
The change in the law has caused apprehension among many people.
School reports are always received with some apprehension.
She felt some apprehensian at the thought of seeing him again.
There i greatappre- ‘hension for the future.
The long delay had made me quite apprehensive.
She was deeply apprehensive about her future.
He was rather apprehensive of failure.
We need to try alternative approaches to the problem.
Some teachers have a more formal approach to teaching.
Vour, prefer She favoured the direct approach.
The aircraft had to make a steep approach ta the landing strip.
The weather turned colder with the approach of autumn.
The plane crashed during its approach to the runuay.
We've received an approach from the directorof arival firm.
Thearmy approached from the south.
The time isfast approaching when we will have to replace these old machines.
It's best toapproach her directly.
She found her father difficult to approach.
Have you approached John about doing a concert?for I approached the bank for a loan.
Here Wordsworth's verse movement closeIy approaches that of Gray.
There is no other player cven remotely cpproaching her calibre.
Itwas thought appropriate to award her the prize.
It might be appropriate for him t attend the course.
The scheme did not mect unqualified approval.
All development requires the prior approvol of the planning authorits.
You are not ollowed to ‘build anything without first obtoining the approval of the local outhority.
The government s now given its approval for the new examinations.
The people listening nod.
The goods were supplied on approval (= they could be sent back if they were not satisfactory).
Jane’s father regards her fiancé with approval.
You may not decorate the flat without the landlord’s approval.
He won approval for his project.
We're waiing for approvalfrom the cuthorities.
She gave him a nod of approval.
There was a roar of approval from the crowd.
The govern- ‘ment has given its seal of approvel fo the project.
The affer is subject to approval at the Annuat General Mecting.
His appointment has not been formelly epproved yet.
This is the nearest approximation of cost that they con give us.
This isonly a crude approximation of theactuol conditions in the area.
We do not hove the true figures sowe will have to make some approximations.
He fias a natural aptitude Jfor this work.
Note at LANGUAGE arbitrary ad.
The decision is fo some extentarbitrary.
Both sides have agreed that the arbitration will be binding.
Both parties agreed to independent arbitration.
The matter will go fo arbitration.
The matter will be settled byarbitration.
The islonds lie in a wide arc just off the mainland.
Mean little houses clustered under theralluway arches.
This huge triumphal arch was erected at the beginning of this centurs.
The branches of the trees formed anarch over the bench.
We rode under the arch.
Anglo-Saxon, classical, medieval, etc.
He was enthroned as archbishop in Canterbury Cuthedratin 1980.
Hewas made Archbishop of Milan.
The house wasdesigned by architect Louis Kahn.
The programme is preserved in the BBC sound archives.
In, preserve sth in The data is now held in the company archives.
There are many clues hidden amongst the archives of the local museum.
Norecord of this letter existsin thearchives.
She knows the localarea very well.
Wreckage from the plane was scattered overa largearea.
Few homes in the area had electricity.
Inan/the~Ill meetyouin the reception area.
Taxation is a very complex area.
The big growth area of recent years has been in health clubs.
The proposals contain too many ‘greyareas (~aspects thatare not clear).
Cover T/ié Course covers w0 main subJectareas.
The primary need s to identify problemareas.
There have been some exciting new developments in this area.
People with this disability can cope well in most areas of life.
We are generally pleased with how the Scheme is operating but there are one or two areas of concern.
He left the arena to loud applause.
In/into an/the~ The rider has to halt the horse in thearena.
Trades unions are active both in individual workplaces and in the wider arena of the state.
The conference should provide an arena for marketing our new products.
Into, enter, mova Into Some documents have now emerged into the public arena.
He had no desire to enter the politicalarena.
The company has been very successful in the commercial arena.
They were arguing over who should have the car that day.
The report ar- ‘gues convincingly that econamic help should be glven to these countries.
In her paper she goes on to argue that scientists do not yet know enough about the nature of the dis ease.
She argued against a rise in interest rates.
The general argued for extending the ceasefire.
They argued in favour of stricter punishments.
Ihad a bigargumentwithmy mother this morning.
In, get into, have Idon't want to get into an argument with her.
Minutes later a violent argument erupted.
We had an argument about what we should buy.
The argument over decentralization will probably continue for ever.
He put forward some very convincing arguments.
The company dismissed his argumentsasalarmist.
She tried to think how to refute the argument on moral grounds.
The government's argument is always based on how much such a scheme would cost.
The same argument applies to fox-hunting.
These arguments suggest that the medical establishment had an interest in suppressing the research.
There is a very good argument for increasing spending on education.
In favour of What are the arguments in favour of change? PHRASES all/both sides of an argument He wasable to see both sides of the argument.
Some learning difficulties arise from the way children are taught at school.
The current de- ‘batearose autof the concerns of parents.
By theageof ten, the children can do simple arithmetic.
I've worked out the price, but Ineed to check the arithmetic.
He used his good arm to support his weight.
I've got a bad arm s0 I'm afraid I can't help you.
They're sure to welcome you witkopenarms.
The figure in the boat raised an arm.
He held out his arms with @ broad smile.
She folded her arms and stared athim.
The couple linked arms and set off along the beach.
He was running towards them, waving his arms.
She moved towards her father and took his arm.
Into They fell into each other’s arms.
His arm hung awkwardly ‘against his side.
Her arms tightened convulsiveIy round the child.
The officer grabbed him by the arm (= grabbed his arm).
The child lay in its mother's arms.
She touched him gently on the arm.
Lucy felt the warm sun on her bare arms.
He walked in witha tall blonde on his arm (=nextto himand holding his arm).
She carried the dog ‘under one arm.
He held the dirty rag at arm's length (= as far away from his body as possible).
She lay curled up in the crook of his arm.
He ran towards her and flung his arms around her: © He put an arm around her shoulders.
She staod loaking at him with ‘arms akimbo.
He eased himself inta the big armchair armed adj.
The soldiers were all armed with automatic rifes.
An arrow had pierced his armour.
In~warriors in full armour ‘® PHRASES @ suit of armour He wore a suit of heavy armour and carried a sword.
Therightto beararms isenshrined in the constitution.
The people took up arms to defend their country.
There weremore than a million ‘men under arms during the American Civil War.
After leaving school Mike went into thearmy.
He was in command of the British Armyin Egypt.
He led thearmy into battle.
The king was unable to raiseanarmy.
The French army was deployed in the Western Desert.
The army was finally defeated in the autumn.
The emperor was deposed and his armydisbanded.
The (wo opposing armies clashed in battle.
Her husband is inthearmy.
Heargued that unemployment createda useful reservearmy of labour.
As soor as I opened the front door I smelled the distinctive aroma of fresh coffee.
The room was filled with a strong ‘aroma of woodsmoke.
The aroma of fresh baking wafted towards her.
These things can be arranged with difficulty.
Todd will be able to arrange matters.
These matters areeasy toarrange.
I'd be very grateful if you could arrange for this work 10 becarried out.
Her red hair was carefully arranged and her face made up.
The books are arrangedalphabetically by author.
She arranged the chairs in neat rows.
She took the list of visttors' names and.
It may be necessary to make alternative arrangements.
There are special arrangements for people working overseas.
Their domestic arrangements were considered unconventional at the time.
Arrangements for the trip have now been completed.
As far as I know the arrangement still stands.
The catering arrangements for the conference have fallen through.
Arrangements for the funeral are complete.
If's purely a business arrangement—there’s no need to get emotionally involved.
The company has a spe cial arrangement with the bank.
She made an arrangement with her employer whereby she worked a reduced number of hours.
Viewing of the property is only possible by arrangement with the owner.
The couple havean arrangement by which they each contribute equally to the cost of the house.
Under this arrangement you can pay for the goods over a longer period.
He fi nally came to an arrangement with his landlord.
The store offers a bewildering array of garden tools.
The customer is faced with a formidable array of products.
They fell info arrears with their rent.
The government has agreed to payallarrears owed to members of the armed forces.
The country had accumulated arrears of $80 million on loans of $400 million.
The local authority must try to recover arrears of rent.
By this time the arrears amounted to £12 000.
She was six months in arrears with the martgage.
You will be paid monthly in arrears.
There 'have been sharp increases in arrears on inferest payments.
He grabbed the intruder by the arm and said, ‘I am making a citizen’s arrest.
Follawing the coup, parliamentary leaders were put under housearrest.
He was charged with vialent behaviour and resisting arrest.
The man is now under arrest in London.
They made 11 arrests for possession of drugs.
The government may re- ‘mave the power of arrest from military police.
Woolley was placed under close arrestfor mutiny.
The timely arrival of the cheque taok away the need ta borrow money.
The staff greeted the arrival of the new head teacher with excitement.
Guests receive dinner upon arrival at the hotel.
With the arrival of John's Jriends, the party became really enjoyable.
Paris PHRASES arrival on the scene They were saved by the arrival on the scene of anather boat.
Thereare 120arrivals and departures every day.
Someone should stay here tomeet the late arrivals.
The club has a dinner to welcome new arrivals ta the town.
We're expecting anewarrival (=a baby) in the family soon.
We should arrive shartly.
We inally arrived at aur destination late that evening.
My uncle arrived unannounced yesterdayevening.
We are due fo arrive in Romeatten a'clock.
The package failed toarrive.
We arrived at the hotel late.
She had the arrogance {o believe the lawdid not apply ta her.
The arrow it its target.
She aimed carefully at the tree but the arrow missed.
The peaple used bows and arrowsfor hunting.
The down arrow indicates rain.
The ald road is shawn on the map by broken arrouws.
Follauw the red arrows to get ta the camp reception.
You con scrall thraugh the text using the up and down arrouw keys.
She collects Jacobean portraits.
The works will be displayed in the new wing of the maseu.
The phatagraphs are on exhibition until the end of September: house~ An annexe was built to hause the sculptures.
Van Gogh a collection/exhibition of ~ anexhibition of early 20th century French masterpleces an art/photographic/photography exhibition The apen art exhibitian will allow new artists taexhibit their work.
Cinema became accepted as an art form.
Many peaple from the art warld attended the painter's funeral.
I've never mastered the artof making bread.
Television has ruined the art of conversation.
She's got the business of buying Christmas presentsdown toa fine art.
The surgeon will widen her arteries.
Too much fatty food will ‘make your arteries more likely to clog up.
It is unclear why some people develop arthritis.
It was her Jjob to commission occasional articls.
An advertisement will now replace the offending article.
I'm doing an article about ways of preventing pollution.
The 'magazine refused toprint his article.
The article appears in this week’s edition of ‘The Spectator’.
Thearticle looks at wo questions.
Thearticle goes on to quote from Darwin’s ‘Origin of Species’.
Inanithe~ Sheadmitted she was wrong inanarticle in the newspaper.
The keyarticles of the constitution can only be changed by referendum.
Article 10 provides that all businesses must be registered.
The judge ordered the child's return homeunder Article 12.
The terms of Article 3 will be changed by the new government.
The finished article takes two months to manujucture.
Fake designer watches are sold at a fraction of the price of the genuine articte.
Names of countries in English donotusually takean article.
She spoke slowly, articulating each wordclearly.
She cannot articulate her feelings verywell.
The teachers help the children to be more articulate abou their strengths and weaknesses.
The soldiers of the artillery train had panicked and cut the traces of their horses.
He is a serious artist, and totally committed to his work.
My husband is a real artist in the kitchen.
Commission In 1942 the city commissioned war artist John Piper to paint its bombed cathedral.
The Blue Note Quartet will be the guest artists tomorrow night.
The festival featured artists such John Melaughlin and Russell Malone.
The fire had died to cold ashes.
Fine ash covered the hill near the volcano.
He Jlicked ash intothe ashtray.
All her dreamshad turned to ashes.
Ashfrom the volcano full over a wide area.
The party had risen, like a phoenix.
His ashes were scattered on his beloved farm.
His foul- ‘mouthed way of speaking made me ashamed of him.
Then she smiled and Rose was instantly ashamed of her jealous feelings.
T've done nothing to be ashamed about.
Hewasslightly ashamed at having run away.
She was ‘ashamed of what she had done.
How doyou feel?” she asked satly.
Did you sleep well?” he asked politely.
Sue went too, did she? T ashed innocently (= pretending 1 did not know that this was important).
Will he be all right? Sabrina asked anxiously.
We can legitimately ask what competence an offcial based in Whitehall has to solve the problems of rural Scotland.
Mary if she knew what was wrong.
Heasked about her family.
If you ask her nicels, she'll give you a sweet.
The baby lay peacefully asleep in its pram.
All the houses seemed asleep.
At the end of the afternoon they were exhausted and half asleep.
The project has two main aspects.
We will be looking at many different aspects of pollution.
This scheme is very good from the social aspect.
The service was excellent in every aspect.
He has high aspirations and wants to improve his_quallfications.
She talked about her hopes and aspirations.
She t00k an aspirin and went to bed.
Dissolve two aspirin in water.
He was killed by a hired assassin.
Three local leaders ‘have been killed in political assassinations.
It is believed that they plotted the assassinatian of the king.
The judge escaped assassination by drug deaers.
He has survived several assassination attempts.
Better street lighting has helped reduce thenumber of assaults against women.
After an all-out assault the village was captured by the enemy.
She used thearticle to make a sustained assault on her former political allies.
Enemy troops launched an assault on the town.
He launched into a ver bal assault an tabloid journalism.
The garrison was built towithstand assaults.
They ook partinavigorous army assault course.
We had assembled for the first rehearsal.
The shelves are available in kit formor fullyassembied.
The assembly voted to detay the leg1slation to allow further consultation to take place.
These issues have been discussed in the regional assemblies.
They demanded the right to hold peaceful assemblies.
When the fire alarm sounds, leave the building and proceed 10 your assembly paint.
We hald an assembly every morning.
This fuctary deals with final assemblyandtesting.
The company has twenty assembly plants in Eurape.
Medicine is, by common assent, a good profession.
There was general assent about his achievements.
The government gave their assent totheproject.
He nodded hisassent when Iasked if Icould leave.
The raising of taxes without the assent of Parliament was declared illegal.
The suggestion was greeted with a murmur of assent.
The report asserts confidently that the industry witl grouw.
He had no real evidence—he simply asserted that what he said was true.
She wished 10 assert her independence from her parents.
Your assertion is not supported by the facts.
Question Researchers have recently challenged these assertions.
It is difficult to fully assess the damage.
The legal costs have been assessed at £75 000.
Examination is by continuous assessment.
He was shrewd in his personal assessments.
Needs assessment is crucial if the fospital is to deliver effective health care.
The new manager carried out an assessment of the sales department.
The teachers are the school's biggest asset.
The tourist industry requires that the country's cultural assets be made more accessible.
Bow windows area natural asset toany room andshould be highiighted.
She will beanasset toany school she attends.
The company's net assets are worth millions.
Liquid assets can be sold more quickly.
They have kidden assets in banks around the world.
He transferred all his assets into his wife's name.
The business disposed of all its capital asses.
The company has increased its UK assets.
The courts can order a company sassets 1o befrozen.
Net assefs have grown to5169million.
If you refuse this assignment you risk losing your Job.
Thephotographer s on assignment in China atthemoment.
The feacher et an assignment on pollution.
In The students handed in their assignments.
Children assimilate new information very quickly.
Many new immigrants have not yet assimilated fully into the new culture.
We have been greatly assisted ‘byindividuals and organizations.
He had 10 assist her in opening the gates.
Sheoffered to assist with the marketing of the product.
People in the flooded areas are in need of direct assistance.
The treaty pledged mutual assistance in the event of anattack on either country.
They argued the case for extra government assistance for the poorest regions.
We provide assistance if your car breaks down.
The World Bank promised assistance to thevalueof §5million.
Do let us know if we can be of any assistance to you.
The work was completed with: the assistance of local carpenters.
I'll ask my personal assistant to deal with this.
She took up a post asresearch assistant in the Department of Pharmacology.
She had a clerical assistant to do her paperwork.
I'm geiting a new assistant next month.
Ibrary, neighbourhood, parent-teacher, professional, student, trade, etc.
It was to bea free association of equal partners.
The book was published in association with British Heritage.
His association with such criminals can only destroy him.
One of the most important potiticat freedoms i freedom of associatian.
The city has had a long association with the mining industry.
Youwant the child to form an association between good behaviour and rewards.
The research showed anassociation between dietand various diseases.
Dogs learn malnly by association.
In~with (= together with) We are working in association with several charities.
He was considered tainted by association with the corrupt regime.
Tourists visit thecity for it histarical associations.
The smell of fresh bread triggers all kinds of associations for me.
Shewas wearing an odd assortment of clothes.
It is reasanable to assume that the economy will continue 1o improve.
It's all 100 easy to assume that ‘Ppeaple know what they aredoing.
Let us assume for @ moment that the plan succeeds.
Your argument is basedon aset of questionable assumptions.
She's aluways making assumptions about how much money people have.
We are working on the assumption that the techniques are safe.
He ‘gave me his personal assurance that the vehicle was safe.
We now have a firm assur- ‘ance of suppart from the government.
They accepted his assurance that patients would be treated as soon as possible.
Despite assurances from the government, the chemicals are known to bedangerous.
She spoke with calm assurance.
Even at a uvery young ageshe showed a great dealof assurance.
He hastened to assure us that the press would not be informed.
Wecan assure you of our full support.
You can rest assured that your children arein good hands.
Although the situation was tense, her voice was calm and veryassured.
He ‘was astonished by the amount of junk in the house.
Ifind his attitude absoluteIyastonishing.
She could not hide her astonishment.
In~ She gazed at him in astonishment.
Everyone gasped with astonishment.
He expressed astonishment at theresults.
She fled the country, and is now seeking asylum in Sweden.
Over 400 people have been refused asylum.
Those flecing from the war have theright toasylum.
In~ He spent three years inan asylum.
She has the butld and strength of a natural athlete.
Theathletes are training hard Jfor the Olympics.
Our field athletes ‘have performed well.
In My daughter wants to compete in athletics.
She didn’ttakeup athletics untit she was 20.
Before the parade, the atmosphere was electric.
Create She tries (o Create an atmosphere of calm and security for her children.
His blunt comments really soured the atmosphere.
His funny remarks lightened the atmosphere.
She could sense the hostile atmosphere in the room.
The atmosphere was charged with excitement.
Since their argument there had been strained atmosphere between them.
Pesticides can kill wildlife and pollute the atmosphere.
Last night's storm had cleared the atmosphere.
The spaceship should re<nter the earth's atmosphere later today.
Dangerousgases have escaped into the upper atmosphere.
The sclentist Ernest Rutherford was the first person to split the atom.
In the war, both sides committed atrocitis.
Heattached therope securely toa tree.
We've grown very attached tothisvillage and wouldn’t want to move.
Mr Wellsis obuiously quite attached to you.
Make sure all the wires remain Jfirmly attached.
Prisoners can develop attachments to their warders.
Hewas subjected toa violent attack.
The southern barder towns have sufJfered a series of attacks.
Most of the population would stand little chance of surviving a nuclear attack.
Bombers pressed home their attack, causing severe damageto harbour installations.
The attack took place under cover of darkness.
The province has been under attack from therebels.
Doctors have gone on the attack, accusing the government of incompetence.
All politicians come under attack for their views.
The government's decision has provaked an attack from leadersof the health service.
He has laid kimself wide open to attack.
He suffers from attacks of anxiety.
She was brutally attacked by twomen.
Heattacked her witha knife.
The police have been strongly attacked for not taking immediate action.
This standard of English should be easily attalnable by every child in theclass.
She has made no attempt to contact her mother.
In He succeeded in his attempt to break the world record.
He abandoned his attempt to reach the summit.
Their attempt to break outaf prison wasfoiled.
Inanfthe~In anattempt to ward offcriticism, the government has made education a priority.
Hemade a feeble attempt at a smile.
He was invited toattend a seminar in Paris.
Itwas arecordattendanceora midweek game.
Despite falling attendances, the 200 will stay open.
The averageattendance at matches increased last year.
Regular attendance at lectures Is important.
Building a new stadium has boosted attendances by 40%.
Attendances at the pool alwaysall in winter.
The emergency services were in attendance within 22 minutes.
They listened with rapt attention.
Policy-makers paid scant attention to the wider issuss.
These poems have received a lot of critical attention.
Wherever he goes, he commands attention.
She doesr't like to draw attention to her illness.
The government is trying to divert attention atway from the economy.
Tere was something in the way he spoke that riveted her attention.
In this chapter we shall confine our attention to non-renewable energy sources.
The firm decided to refocus its attention back onto it traditional strengths and expertise.
She was surrounded by men all vying for her attention.
My boss was grateful that I ‘had brought the matter to his attention.
Her primary aim was to avoid the atten tions of the newspapers.
Media attention focused today on the prince’s business affatrs.
He isa designer knownfor his meticulous attention to detail.
He was convicted of driving without due care and attention.
Some children love being the centre of attention.
The focus of attention must now be how to improve the economy.
Luke had no need to Jforce his attentions on unuwilling women.
The child needs special attention.
He devoted all his attention to his mother.
She lavishes attention on those silly little dogs.
Her photography studio was a converted attic.
She seems t have the right attitude for the job.
The teachers seem to have a very relaxed attitude towards discipline.
The general attitude of the public is sympathetic.
The government has taken a positive attitude to this problem.
The experience changed his attitude to religion.
This sort of attitude exists among certain groups of people.
Youth is simply an attiauction tude of mind.
There has been a marked change in attitude towards the European single currency.
They shared a powerfut mutual attraction.
Long holidays hold no attraction for him.
Allmatter exertsa gravitational attraction.
His attraction (o sou is obvious.
The main attraction of the place is the nightlife.
Feeding the animals proveda popular attraction for visitors to the farm.
She looked attractive and beautifully dressed.
She had grown more attractive withage.
He no longer found her physically attractive.
Schools must try to make science more attractivetoyourgsters.
Patience is an essential attribute for a teacher.
Her physical attributes were much admired.
They claim that one in twenty deaths can be directly attributed to air pollution.
The goals commonly attributed to management are status, power, salary and security.
The estate is holding an auction to raise money.
My ather witl be conducting the auction tomorrou.
He regularly attended auctions.
The horse witt be put up for pubtic auction.
The paintings will come up for auction next month.
The house was sold ot auction for half amillion pounds.
The shot was clearly audible in the silence.
The singer’s voice was just audible.
He Drefers playing to live audiences.
Such a well-known politician should drow a big audience.
Wewant to reach a target audience that's younger inage.
The film has thrilied cudiences throughout the country.
The audience was visibly moved.
The audience cheered loudly.
He felt nervous standing up in front of the large audience.
The Pope granted him an audience.
He sought a private audience with the Queen.
The council and district auditors have agreed that the deals were unlauful.
His firm has been appointed the auditors to thecompany.
The darkened auditorium was filled with muttering.
Heexuded an aura of wealth and power.
The picture seemed 10 take on the aura of on ancient workof art.
The sunlight created an aura of beauty around her.
There was alwoys ¢ faint aure of mystery about him.
Some Journatists have cast doubt on the authenticity of the officlal version of events.
Despite its certificate of authenticity, the painting was found (o bea fake.
There has been some debate over the cuthenticity of his will.
Stephen King is an author I've never read.
The author was writing in the seventeenth centurs.
The govern- ‘ment is urging education authorities to spend less money.
The local health authority denied negligence.
The local authority has not granted planning permission.
Porents hove the authority todiscipline their children.
He assumed fullouthority as tsar in 1689.
The new ‘manager obviously felt the need to demonstrate her authority.
She had challenged my authority once tao often.
This con only be done under the authority of the ‘government minister.
He took the car without outhority.
Central government has extensive authority over teachers.
Copernicus justified ‘his innovation by citing respected authorities.
She'sa leading authority on genetics.
You will need prior authorization from your bank.
He asked for authorization to proceed with the plan.
The government will probably refuse authorization under these conditions.
You cannot take a day off without authorization.
Formal authorization for the trip was given last week.
The change of plan would re- ‘quire authorization from the minister: autistic ad.
In anithe ~ In his autobiography, he recalls the poverty hegrewup in.
He signed his autograph for the little girl.
Themachine i ully automatic.
Promotion was almost automaticafter twoor threeyears autonomous adj.
Although officially a dependent territory the island i effectively autonomous.
Higher education is relatively autonomous from the state.
The subsldiary companies will now have more autonoms.
Head affice is giving the reglonal offices more cutonomy.
Schools have gained greater autonomy from government control.
The ‘autopsy revealed that he had been poisoned.
They carried outan autopsy on the victim.
The (rees were beginning to turn orange and yellow with autumn colours.
Before travel Ling we must ensure the availabllity of petrol and oi.
They want fo restrict the availability of abortion.
All holiday bookings are subject toavailability.
The product will now bemade available throughout the market.
Grants should be available for all students.
Details are available from the above address.
This information is freely available to anyone wishing to see t.
She is in a meeting at present, but Twilllet you knowas soon as she becomes available.
The chairman was not availablefor comment.
The avalanche struck the ski resort in the late afternoon.
Kill sb They were killed by an avalanche in the SwissAlps.
In anithe~ They died inan avalanche.
We need (o explore every possible avenue.
There wasonlyoneavenue cpenta him.
His test results are well above average.
On average, prices have risen 6%.
He hasa strong aversion to dogs.
He managed to avert the closure of thefactory.
Kly They hastily averted their faces to hide their giggles.
It is sometimes impossible to avoid conJlict aliogether.
They narrowly avoided defeat in the semifinat.
Getting involved in a court case is something to beavoided ot allcosts.
He was careful to cvoid any sentimentality in his speech.
He fuled in hisattempt to avoid having to pay.
He braked hard and narrowly avoided a parkedvan.
She swerved 10 avoidacyclist.
Most accidentsare asily avoidable.
She is anxiously awalting a decision on her juture.
Sheawoke early thenext morning.
Iawokefrom adeepsleep at six o'clock.
At night, he lay owake beside her.
Claudia came awake siowly.
Stephen jerked awake from a nightmare.
He was struggling to stay awake.
Benjamin shook me awake.
The noise had kept her awake.
By nou; the baby was wide awake.
It was very early and I was only half auwake.
She was just auwakening from sleep.
He was rudely ‘awakened by the sound of drilling.
If they expected a warm welcome, theywerein fora rudeawakening.
The award was made for his work in cancer research.
Stephen's quick thinking has earned him a bravery auard.
The best director award went t0Sam Mendes for‘ American Beauty'.
The union is unhappy with this year's pay award.
The judge has the power to make discretionary awards.
She mentalIy awarded herself top marks for staying cool under pressure.
We need to ‘make people more aware of these problems.
Mr ‘Bush did not appear fully aware of the importance of this act.
He was rot real1y aware of what he was doing.
Moran wos painfully aware of Luke's absence.
Of The police are wellaware of the dangers.
Politicians now havemuch greater awareness of theseproblems.
The group is trying toralse public awareness about homelessness.
Environmental awareness has increased over the years.
Everest has always inspired awe and respect among climbers.
We gazed in awe at the massive building.
What Imostly felt was aweat her achievement.
They experienced a tremendous senseof awe in the cathedral.
The Niagara Fallsarea truly awesomesight.
Ireqlized what Id done.
She asked some rather awkward questions.
He could make things very awkward for me if he wanted to.
He was embarrassed, which made him awkward.
As teenager hewas painfully awkuward in company.
They felt awkward about having to leave S0500m.
Wielding the axe on the prison plan would be one way of saving mony.
Up to 300 workers are facing the axe at a sruggling Merseysidefirm.
Potients are delighted their local hospital has been saved from the axe.
We were expecting bad news but had noidea where the axe would fall (= where the loss/reduction would be).
The earth spinson its axis.
Smoking in pregnancy increases the risk of producing alow birthweight baby.
Freddie was her hears desire and Joy.
He took an interest in the growing baby even before it was born.
She's not sure yet ‘how many babies she's carrying.
She's expecting a baby in July.
The baby was delivered by a midwife.
She lost her baby (= had a miscarriage) three months into her pregnancy.
The baby needed burping after every battle.
You should change your baby about six times a day.
She rocked the baby ta sleep in her arms.
Could you take the baby? I need to bring in the washing.
They would like to adopt a ‘newbarn baby.
She decided to put her baby up for adoption.
He was so tired after all his exertions, he slept likea baby.
Their first baby arrived exactly nine months after the wedding.
The ‘baby cooed happily on the rug.
Babies drool a lot when they are teething.
Icould el the baby maving inside me.
He was 38, and a confirmed bachelor.
He's off work with a bad back.
He yawned and stretched his back as he got out of bed.
The cat arched its back and hissed at the dog.
His back stiffened as he saw the photographers waiting.
They blindfolded him and tied his hands behind his back.
People say bad thingsabout him behind his back, but never to his face.
He was carrying a small child on his ‘back.
Shewas lying on her back on the sofa.
In thelyour~ T've got a nagging pain in my lower back.
He was standing with his back (o the fire.
The boss was certain that the staff would stop working as soon as his back was turned.
The children sat back to ‘back so they couldn't see each athers’ drawings.
He smiled and gave me a hearty slap on the back.
She deserves a pat on the back for her efforts.
She felt a sharp pain in the small (= the lowest part of) her back.
Actors should never turn their backs on the audience.
She decided to turn her back on Paris ‘and return to her home town.
If you'd like to come round the back (= to thearea behind the house), I'll show you the garden.
We could only get seats af the back.
Mymoney's allfallen dour: the back of the cushion.
Twa passengers sat in the back of the car: to the~ The man was refusing t go to the back of the queue.
Thearts pageis usually towards the back of the newspaper: * PHRASES back to front I had my pullover on back to front (= with the back where the front should be).
She backed away hurriedls.
If you can't drive in forwards, ry backing it in.
Back off! There's no need to yell at me.
He tried 1o back away.
She backed across the room.
The children backed away from him in fear.
She ‘backed into the garage.
He backed outof the drie.
Teachers are strongly backing the new educational policies.
Ais election bid was financially backed by a soft drinks company.
I'll back you up if they don't believe you.
The government was forced to back down from implementing these proposals.
She refused to back ‘down on a point of principle.
The committee finally ‘backed dawn over the issueaf spending cuts.
The conference begins this week against a backdrop of unmitigated gloom.
The Alps provided the perfect backdrop for a romantic holiday.
War is more than just a dramatic backdrop to the novel.
Thesurprise [ had planned backfired on me.
It important to have broad edu cational background.
He came from a very privileged background.
The ‘tudens are drawn from very mixed social backgrounds.
In sth Her background was in biology and medicine.
The book provides the background to the revolution.
Those discussions formed the back- ‘ground to the decision.
Against that general background I shall give you a more detalled view of current medical proctice.
The areas of water stood out against the dark bockground.
The mountains in the background were capped with snow.
The dispute over the new contract allowed her ather problems to Jfade into the background.
He had learnt how to mel invisibly into the background.
He Pprefers to remain in the background and let his assistant deal with the press.
There was a radio on in the background.
The teachers have the full backing of the school governors.
The backing will come from the government.
They want backing for more research.
Such a decision may provoke a backlash from their supporters.
They facea backlash from shareholders.
Note at STROKE backward ad).
Fry the bacon untilcrisp.
Neither chilling nor freezing kills all bacteria.
Theweather got very bad later in the day.
Things are bad enough without our own guns shelling us.
John's ina pretty bad mood this morning.
He's really bad of maths.
Smoking is very bad for you.
The sausages tasted bad.
This meat hos gone bad.
She felt pretty bad about leaving him.
His badge of office, a large gold key, hung round his neck.
It is his illness that makes him bad-tempered.
He grew more and more bad-tempered as the aflernoon woreon.
The referee remains baffled s to why his decision caused so much anger: by The doctors are completely baffled by her illness.
Her crocodile skin clutch bag matchedher ~shoes.
The dead soldiers were put on the plane in body bags.
We're giving ‘away afree goody bag with every children’s meal.
He could not convince those who held the maney bags that his idea was viable.
The mushrooms are sealed ina bag for freshness.
In/into, stuffithrust sth injinto The camera caught him slipping a CD into his bag.
There was no lift so T had to lug my bags up the stairs.
He shouldered his bag and Left.
We dropped our bags off ot the hotel and went straight out.
She grabbed her bag and ran out of the door: & Two youths snatched her bag as she was walking ‘home.
He was walking along swinging his school bag.
They were gathering their bags preparing to leave.
The customs afficer asked him to empty out the contents of his bag.
She stepped down off the bus with her bag siung over her shoulder.
At the airport I found that Lhad 100k of excess baggage.
She'sstill carrying all thatemotional baggage from her first marriage.
Let's claim our baggage first.
Extensive ‘baggagetrains followed the troops.
She has been granted conditional bail.
The judge set bail at £50000.
She couldn't get bail and now she's lost thase 20 months she spent on remand.
The police were successful in opposing bail.
They were reteased on police bail pending further enquiries.
The accused were held without bal.
In Their landlord has threatened to send in the bailffs if they don’t pay their rent.
The bailifs seized the car and house.
He usedmaggotsas live bait.
We'll put out the bait and see what happens.
We hope that potential investors will take the bait.
The house was filled with the scent of freshly baked bread.
With children, it is important 10 achieve the right balance between love and discipline.
Being a good bass requires a fine balance between kindness and authority.
It is the overall balance of the diet that is important.
Pulling up all the plants will disturb the natural balance of the pond.
We need to strike a balance betuween these conJlicting interests.
You have to ‘maintain a balance in your life or else you'll go crazy.
On balance, the company has had a successful year.
It is important to keep the different aspects of your life in balance.
The balance of ad- ‘vantage has shifted from the unions to employers.
Democracy depends ona system of checks and balances.
Gymnasts have excellent balance.
Tightness in one set of muscles will affect your whole balance.
She lost her balance and fel.
The sudden movement threw him off bolance.
Cats have a very good senseof balance.
He asked the cashier for the balance of his current account.
Il need 0 check my bank bolance before I spend so mich money.
The final balance is due six weeks before departure.
The balance of the proceeds will be used for new equipment.
He balanced the glasses carefully on the tray.
The plan seeks to balance two important objectives.
We have to balance the risks of the new strategy against the possible benefits.
She tries to balance the needs of her children with those of her employer.
The report was accurate and well balanced.
The parliament was evenly balanced ‘etween the two parties.
He started to go bald in his twenties.
He's in his twentles butalready balding.
Gricket, golf, rugby, tennis, etc.
He caught the ball.
Shechased the ballall over the pitch.
The goalkeeper missed the ball.
Oh no! He's dropped the ball.
The ball flew over the bar into the sea of Middlesbrough fans.
The ball kit the wall and rolled along the road.
His ball control was excellent.
He sentover a high ball.
He was penalized for hand ball.
Ish He pounced on a loose ball and scored.
The sun was a fiery bal, low on the hills.
The little girl curled upintoa ball in her mother’sarms.
He screwed the letterup intoa tight ball.
The responsibilitywas a ball and chain around my ankle.
We're going to a masked ball.
We're organizing ackarity bal.
She met him at the college ball.
He's studying classical ballet.
Shecrossed the Atlantic by hot-air balloon.
Only 40% of eligible voters cast their ballots.
They voted against him at the second ballot.
The jury cast their vote by secret ballot.
In ‘althe~ The club members decided ina ballot to suspend the captain.
Tvoted for her on the first ballot.
Impose, introduce, place, put The KU has imposed a ban on the import of seal skins.
The ban on exports has now been eased.
The students took to the streets, defyinga ban on political gatherings.
The ban only coverstropical harduwood.
Ps voted t0 ban hunting with dogs.
He has been banned from driving for a year.
The company has acquired an unhappy knack of slipping on banana skins (=being led into making mistakes that make it look stupid).
He runs the business as a one-man band (~ does everything himself) .
She plays ina rock band.
He is one of a select band of top class players.
Wrap the bandage firmly around the inJured lim.
She had a handage on her arm.
He'll bein bandages for a few weks.
Competitors have jumped on the bandtwagon and started building similar machines.
The Scottish Natlonalist bandwagon s gathering pace.
There is now a bandwagon effect with moreandmarefirms joining the scheme.
They seem to ‘havegot an anti-government bandwagon rolling.
We suddenly heard an almighty bang from the kitchen.
She slammed the door with a loud bang.
Hegota nasty bang on the head.
He kept banging his chair against the wall.
She banged loudlyon the table.
The bedroom door banged shut.
She ‘banged thedoor shut.
He banged into me in the corridor on I bangedmy leg on thetable.
Invastmant, issuing, reserve, savings The central bank has put up interest rates.
The bond will be priced by the issuing bank.
She has her money in one of the largest savings banks.
The bank lent her money to buy a car.
Investors lost millions when the bank crashed.
He got a large loan from the bank.
I'll put half the money in the bank and spend the rest.
We could see them waving on the opposite bank.
The River Frome had burst its banks after torrential rain.
Thechildren rolled down the grassy bank.
Internet, online Af first consumers were wary of e-banking.
In~This Software s used in banking.
Hundreds of firms went bankrupt during the recession.
Shehad fo pay themortgageafier her ‘husband was declared bankrupt.
Small travel operators are Jacing bankruptcy.
The company has been forced to file for bankruptcy.
It is the only country fo have declared bankruptey.
The defenddant hasa bonkruptcy order against him.
The demonstrators corried banners bearing various slogans.
Banners demanded the president’s resignation.
The meal that followed was @ veritable banquet.
Visitors to the castle can enjoy a medieval banquet with entertainment, inan authenticsetting.
The kitchens are preparing for a lavish banquet.
The Lord Mayor atiended.
In Sheengages in friendly banter with her customers.
He often drops intoa baron theway homefrom work.
You can usually find him propping up the bar of the Red Lion.
They were chatting at the bar: behind the~ The barmaid stood behind the bar.
She played afew bars on thepiano.
The curfew has effectively barred migrant workers from their jobs.
You shouldn't have left the wires bare.
The earth had been laid bare.
The walls have beenstripped bare.
The room was completely bare.
The room looked strangely bare without thefurniture.
The house wasalmost bareaf furniture.
The children had to go barefoot because there was no money for shoes.
He padded barefoot across the carpet.
Ipicked up a realIy good bargain in the market.
He's very strong and completely fearless into the bargain.
You haver't kept your side of the bargain.
He bargained hard and was stubborn.
He was prepared to bargain about money.
There will be some hard bargaining before an agreement is reached.
Unions were insistent on the right to collective bargaining.
We are row in astrong bargaining position.
The peoplestrip the bark and use itin medicines.
The dog gave a loud bark.
Thedogwas barking furiously ata cat.
Malt whisky is made from maited barley.
The barometer has been steady for three days nouw.
He tapped the ‘barometer and noted where the needle was pointing.
He was confined to barracks for three weeks as a punishment.
Troops unleashed a barrage of grenades.
The reporters kept upa constant barrage of questiors.
The president is facing a barrage of riticism over his handling of the crisis.
They builta barrage across the bay.
The price of oil had fallen to $16 per barrel.
Beer is sold by the barrel.
She Jound herself looking down the barrel of a gun.
The years of ‘growing cotton had madethe land completely barren.
The protesters formed a human borricade.
The army used tanks to storm the barricades.
There weresixminers manning the barricades.
The two sides watched each other over the barricades.
Students built a barricade against the police.
The crowd managed to break through the barriers and getonto the pitch.
Please show your icket at the barrier: behind atthe ~ The police waited behind the barriers.
There wasa slow trickleaf people through the barrlers.
The old laws created barriers to free trade.
They believe that sport can cross any barriers.
Thecountry hassetup barriers against imports.
The mauntains form a natural borrler between the tuwo countries.
The statue has a solid concrete Dbase.
His arguments have a sound econamic base.
These policies give us a solid bose for winning the next election.
He used the notes as a base for his lecture.
These policies have a broad base of support.
The country has a sound commercial base.
Thecampany istrying to expand its customer base.
The company has its base in New York.
The company has set up its rew basein thenorth.
Demonstrators demanded the removal of Joreign bases.
The Americans established a naval base on the island in the 1960s.
The planes ‘haveall returned to base.
The novels are all loosely based on the author's life.
Their research was based largely on anecdotal evidence.
Inalthe~ The canteen is down in the basement.
Shegota baston the head.
They're throwing a big bashtocelebrate their anniversary.
She bashed him so hard she broke his nose.
Someane bashed him on the nose.
She bashed him with her book.
He had been attacked and bashed abouta bit.
The book cavers the basics of massage.
It'stime our education system got back to basics.
The important thing is toget the basics right.
The proposal provides a sound bosis for a book.
In sth These allegations have no basis in fact.
We made our decision on the basis of the information we had.
The whole basis for your argument is false.
Staff are employed on a monthly basis.
She uas cycling along with her bicycle basket full of shopping.
She heaved the huge basket onto thetable.
Infinto a/the~ The cat lay curled in its basket.
The bass clarinet Jorms a solid bass for the woodwind group.
The church organist may improvise on a ground bass.
He aluways plays his stereo with the bass turnedrightup.
Don has agreed tosing bass (= the bass part).
He answered my question in a surprisingly deep bass.
Hickwent in to bat ofter Hussain putsbin to India won the toss and put England in to bat.
He baked a fresh batchof rolls.
Each summer a new batch of students tries tofind work.
Wedeliver the goods n batches.
If's the children's bath time.
Please anster the phone.
The police wereordered to draw their batons and disperse the croud.
Five people wereinjured inthe baton charge.
Each runner passes the baton (o the next.
She elt emotionally battered.
She wore battered old robe.
The car won't start —the bottery's lat.
The machine can also runon batteries.
After about six hours, the battery will run down.
With our product you et longer batcery life.
The tuwo armies foughta pitched battleon the plain.
Charles Vrefused togive battle.
The twoarmies Joined battle.
Many young men were sent into battlewithout proper training.
Napoleon was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo.
Police fought a pliched batle against demonstrators.
Scores of peaple have been hurt in running battles with police.
We seem to be fighting a losing battle.
The government now faces a new battle over tax increases.
They areengaged in a long-running legal battle with their neighbours.
The child battled bravely for her life.
Invain Doctars battled invain fosavehis1ife.
We'll keep battling away and hope that the goals start to come.
Rescuers battled against torrential rain and high winds.
Residents are battling over plans for a new supermarket.
We battled through the snowstorm.
Riot polce battled with 4 000 students.
It out Competitors battled it out against the clock.
Lights twinkled across the bay.
He walked along the beach.
They met ot the beach.
She lay on the ‘beach and read her book.
She threaded the beads corefully.
Shedrank from a plastic beaker.
He played the beam of his torch over the wall of the cave.
He was suddenly caught in the full beam of asearchlight.
He beamed broadly at them, clearly very Dleased to see them.
She positively beamed with satisfaction.
She beamed happily at Maxim.
His face ‘beamed with pleasure.
If using dried beans, soak themovernight first.
Don't leave me alone.
We could ‘hardly bear to beoutdoors in the blinding sunlight.
Youmust bear at least some responsibility for what has happened.
The burden of the tax bore most heavily on the poor: bearable adj.
The camaraderie among fellow employees made the tedious work just bearable.
He found the dullness of his work scarcely bearable.
Hesporteda neat goatee beard.
Jim stroked his beard reflectivels.
My beard’s groun a lot.
His beard isstreaked with grey.
He had two days ‘beard growth across his jowls and chin.
She's scared of men with beards.
The rise in Interest rates had a direct bearing on the company's profis.
Everything was tn darkness and it was difficult to get my bearings.
To keep your bearings in a desert sandstorm is impossible.
She lost her bearings in the thick forest.
Local people live in Jear of this unknown sex beast.
The beast in her wanted 10 destroy his ‘house.
Somehouw she broughtout the beast in him.
They danced totherhythmic beat of the music.
The piece has four beats to the bar.
As I opened the letter; my ‘heartmissed a beat.
We have two officers walking the beatafter midnight.
He beat her hands down.
He was narrowly beaten by his opponent.
She beat him at chess.
He was beaten into second place by the Amzrican.
He had been ‘beaten about the head with a rock.
Yightly Add three eggs, lightly beaten.
The team tooka terrible beating.
They caught himand gave him a violent beating.
We did all we could to make the room beautiful.
They're just beautiful’ breathed Jo, when she saw the earrings.
The designs were pure, austere and coldly beautiful.
She was knoun asa great beauty in her time.
Pleasestrip the beds and put the sheets in the washing machine.
She crawled into bed exhausted.
He lay in bed, reading his book.
If s your turn to put the children to bed.
Don't punish a child who wets the bed.
In~Iliketo bein bed before 110'clock.
Are you outof bed yet? PHRASES bed and breakfast, the edge/side of the bed, the foot/head of the bed, get sb into bed (= With s5), go to bed with sb (- have sex with sb), take to your bed (= go to bed because you are ill), time for bed Comeon, children, it’s timefor bed.
They converted the spare bed- ‘room into an office.
The actress refused to appear naked in the bedroom scenes.
There were dirty clothes strewn around the bedroom.
The larger houses arefourbedroom houses.
The doctor was summened to his bedside.
His wife never left s bedside.
It's well past my ‘normal bedtime.
He was stung by thousands of angry bees.
The bees swarmed round the hive.
How would you like your beef?”‘Rare, please.
The pub smelled of stale beer.
The shop specialIzes in designer beers.
He downed his beer in one go.
This beer should be drawn slowly.
I'saw himat the bar ordering a beer.
I'm going for e beer with Cart tonight.
Put the beer in the fridge to chill.
The beer flowed freely after thematch.
He slammed hisglassdown and the beer slopped over the sides.
The pub has a beer garden round the back.
He's only twenty but he's already got a beer belly (= a fat stomach from drinking too much beer).
He had to beg food from passers.
We humbly beg Your Majestytoshowmercy.
Don't leaveme, he begged her silently.
We went to him 10 beg for forgiveness.
Donotdothat, Ibeg of you.
Once it has finished, the video automatically begins again.
We had to begin all over again.
The entertainment was due to begin at 8.
Lef's begin by writing down a few ideas.
We will begin with a brief discussion of the problems.
Begin your story at the beginning, and carry on to the end.
She spokeof a new beginning for the nation.
This invention marked the beginning of the modern age.
I'm paid at the beginning of each manth.
Tell me the whole stors, right from the ‘beginning.
In the beginning Ifound the coursevery difficult.
That holiday to gether was the beginning of the end of our friendship.
The society had its early beginnings In discussion groups.
The play was rubbish from beginning to end.
From these smail beginnings it grew into the vast company we know today.
Very beginning disliked her from the very beginnine.
Children who behave badly are rejecting odult values.
The enguiry investigated whether officers had behaved correctly.
Stop behaving like a threeyearold! towards He had always behaved in a friendly ‘manner towards us.
Parents can influence the behaviour of their children.
She was strict with her children in the genuine belief that it was the right thing to do.
Ithin the rightsand urongsof eating meat areamatterof personalbelief.
The peaple stillfollow their traditional beliefs.
They were persecuted for their religious beliefs.
Catholic, Christian, pagan, etc.
Each religion has ts setof belicfs.
He shared his futher's belief that people should work hard for their living.
She clung to the belie/ that he would come back to her.
She has lost her belief in God.
Here the apastle Peter affirms his belief that the scriptures are ‘inspired.
The exam results encouraged the belief that he was a good teacher.
This latest evidence strengthens our belief that the government is doing the right thing.
The child's death shook her belief in God.
You must respect other people’s beliefs.
It begears belief how things could ‘havegot this bad.
Belief in the magical propertlesaf this herb persisted down the centuries.
In a belief in God.
In spite of ‘what peaple think) Contrary to popular belief, rainforests arenot jungles through which you have (o slash a path.
All the characters were very believable.
Iind her story hardly believable.
He firmiy believed that he was right.
It's hard to believe that this compaign has been going on for ten years.
The boss gave me to belleve thatwe wouldallget apayrise.
I'm inclined to believe you.
The advertisement led us (o believe that all prices had been cut.
I'mafirm believer in the benefits of exercise.
The two of them went everywhere together and their friends could already hear wedding bells (= were sure they would getmarried).
The bells on the harness tinkled softly.
Thechurch bells lolled for Evensong.
She heard a peal of church belis.
Thesound of bells echoed across the valley.
Alarm bells wereringing inside Stuart's head.
She hurried to answer thedoorbell.
Tre school bell goes at three every afternoon.
He woke with a bellowof rage.
Since he turned 30 he's.
He's so fal, his belly hangsover histrousers.
Shefelt the child in her belly kick.
He was trying tosort through his belongings and bring them to some sortaf order.
Sheranoneaf the little tea rooms so beloved of Londoners at the turn of the century.
New roads are cutting into the green belt (= open land round a city where buildingis strictly controlled).
Sarah looked totally bemused.
Connle was rather bemused by all the attention she was getting.
They have several top playerson the subs' bench.
Heoftensleeps on park benches.
Government ministers and the most important members of the Opposition sit on the front benches.
There were cheers from the La- ‘bour benches.
Heuwas working at his bench.
Ruth clinging to her seat.
Hehada winning tead off the final bendl.
Heslowed down tonegotiate the bend.
The car vanished round bend.
He came off the bend in the lead.
Slow down on thetight bends.
Sarah bent close fo him.
He was @ great public benefactor and gave land for building the sea wall.
She was a generous benefactor to the library.
Some alternative treatments mey prove highly beneficial.
Thearrangement was mutually beneficlal.
This could bring real benefts for teachers.
The scheme has many additional benefts.
The fringe benefits include free health insurance.
The different environmental groups could work together to their mutual benefit.
The compeny derived substantial benefit from the deol.
I'reaped the beneJits of alt my early training.
The new factory will bring considerable benefits to the area.
Weshatl do this for the benefit of the patients.
This arrangement will be of great benefit to you both.
It will be to everyone's benefit.
One way to cut spending is to move from universal benefits— those paid to everyone regarless of need—to means tested.
You may be able to claim housing benaft.
He receives unemployment bengfi.
She is worried that if she takes ona Job she will lose her benefits.
The government has cut unemployment beneft.
Benefit is paid monthly.
He's on socialsecurity benefit.
The new latw clecrly benefits those earning the most money.
We bencfited directly from the reorganization.
We both benefited financially from thearrangement.
The effects of this chemical are fairly benign.
We are looking Jor an environmentally benign alternative t0 bleach.
She has an artistic bent.
He showed a literary bent from a young age.
Hesstood with knees slightly bent.
The man shuffled back a few ‘paces, bentalmost double.
The library has received a generous bequest from a locat businessman.
In his will he madea substantial bequest to hiswife.
The picture wes acquired by bequest in 1921.
Jack Dawkins ~to a bequestohisson bereaved adj.
We picked a few of the berries.
Ive managed to get berths on the overnight ferrs.
Owen judged it best to make no repiy.
We aim to give our guests the very best attention.
This is by far the best restaurant in the town.
Who in the class is best at maths?for T'm only trying todo what's best for you.
I'm going to place @ bet on that white horse.
We are now taking bets on theelection result.
Is/it is my bet (that).
My betis that Liverpool will win.
His defection to the ather side was the ultimate betrayal.
The business community regarded the measures as abetrayalof election promises.
Cars are getting better all the time.
We must make our inner cities better to live and work in.
Judge sth, think sth 1 thought it better to tackle him outside of business hours.
His latest book is a darned sight better than the one before.
Kiss sth Did you hurt yourself? Poor thing—come here and letme Kiss it better.
She packed her bags and left—leaving Matthew bewildered and confused.
He was rather bewildered at seeing her there.
She was totally bewildered by his message.
It was all very bewildering.
The newspaper has a clear bias towards the Consercative Parts.
Ve have now tried to correct the bias in our original report.
The newspaper was freefrom political bias.
In, exist Bias often creeps in through the wording of questions.
All material must be selected and presented without bias.
Fate was strongly biased against him.
In tavour of The methods they employed were heavily biased in the gentry's favour.
Managers are naturally ‘biased towards projects showing a quick return.
The Bible teaches that all people are equal before God.
You can read the story of Noah in the Bible.
Consult the bibliog- ‘raphy for further reading on the subject.
You'll find the professor’s book in the bibliography.
The book includes a selective bibliography of workson French art.
She ‘came off her bicycle when it skidded on some wet leaves.
Ske pedalled her bicycle up the track.
German firm launched a takeover bid for the company.
He attacked his guards in a desperate bid for freedom.
This play was her last bid for recognition.
He made a cash bid Jfor the company.
They have invited bids for the property.
Two dealers bid against each other for the antique table.
She bid £10 000for the painting.
We have successfully bid for the contract.
This house is rather big for us.
He wasa big fatchap with a beard.
This isa fairly big decision to make.
She pedalled her bike up the track.
We had topush our bikes up the hill.
Special page at CLOTHES bilingual ad).
He is virtually bilingual in Spanish and Portuguese.
Tue just got a huge tax bill.
The company could nowface higher fuel bills.
Weran upaverylarge hotel bill.
They presented us with a very large bill.
Weneed to cutour electricity bills.
Parliament, bring forwardiin, introduce, propose, put forward, submit The billwill be brought before Parliament nextyear.
The government has put forward an emergency bill to limit the powers of the police.
The oppasition will Iry to Jorce the bill through Parliament.
Mozart s on the bill thisevening.
She threw the letter in the wastepaper bin.
Put the wrapper in the bin.
He's in adouble bind: he needs experience to et ajob but hecan’t get experience without working.
They bound his hands together tighly.
With The sails are bound to the mast with cord.
She Jfound herself bound hand and foot.
Thedecisions of the European Courtare binding on the United Kingdom.
He went on a drunken ‘bingewhen he heard the bad news.
He Jfocused his binoculars on the building in the distance.
She raised her binoculars to the distant road across the valley.
The book gives potted biographies of all the ‘major painters.
She's a research biologist for a pharmaceutical company.
Seabirds flocked above our heads.
We watched a bird of prey swoop down on a mouse.
Better living conditions mean more live births and fewer sillbirths.
The baby weighed 7 pounds ot birth.
Ing althe~ The child's fother was present at the birth.
Hewas American by birth, but lived in France.
She spent her 50th birthday in Paris.
He is approaching ‘his 40th birthday, and thinking of retiring from sport.
He had a portrait painted as a birthday surprise for his daughter.
We're taking him to see the ‘new film for his birthdoy treat.
She'll be 34 on her next birthday.
Happy birthday), wish sb a happy birthday Wish John a happy birthday from me.
He was cutting biscuits out and putting them on a baking tray.
He brushed the biscuit crumbs from his jacket.
He's the diocesan bishopand he has threesuffragan bishops to help him.
He helped me a little bit in the afternoon.
Just a bit I'm still just a bit confused.
It rained a fair bit during the night.
Wemadea good bit of progress.
The new system will takequitea bitof getting used 10 (= it will take a long time to get nsed (o).
It rained quite a bit during the night.
Has it been difficult for you at work?“Justa bit (= it has been very difficult).
The best bit of the holiday wasseeing the Grand Canyon.
I've got us anice bitof fish Jfor dinner.
He managed to get odd bits of work, but no regular job.
Listen to the interview again and pick out the bits you want to use in the article.
She tore the letter up and threw it on the floor.
Marion stooped to pick up the bits.
I'm worried becouse bits keep fallingoff my car.
My mother has some bits and pieces to give you.
All the crockery had been smashed (o bits.
My briefcase eventually fell fo bits.
She fried 0 talk betuween bites.
Can I have a biteof your sanduwich?~out of She took a bite out of the slab of cake.
Wemanaged to graba biteat thetheatre before the show started.
We'll havea bite to eat in town.
Their cat was badly bitten bya dog.
He bitoff a chunkof bread.
He bit at his lower lip.
She bit into the apple.
The dog had bitten right throughits rope.
As the recession bites harder many ‘small companies are going bankrupt.
After tuwo cold months, thecoal shortage was beginning to bite.
He had grawn bitter as the years passed.
She still seems quite bitter about it.
She feels no bitterness towards him.
He's never shown any bitterness.
She spoke slawly and with some bitterness.
Ais bitterness towards his own father ~among the bitterness among nurses abaut this pay deal ~between There is no bitterness between them.
Ifound thewhole situation very bizarre.
He walked off in a most bizarre fashion.
He made some totally bizarre com- ‘ments.
It's a pretty bizarre film.
The sky looks very black.
She had beautiful Jet-black hair.
It was pitch black outside.
Please copy the homewark from the blackboard.
You can’t just stand at the blackboard and talk.
The homework is an the blackboard.
On aithe~ She was on the company's blacklist.
Into She says she was virtually blackmailed into ‘giving up her claim 1o the property.
You could buy anything you needed on.
During the war; there was a thriving black market in food.
Infection, problem He died of bladder cancer.
My brother broke the windouw, but Tgot the blame.
The companyrefused to acceptany blameor the damage.
The government must share the blame for this confusion.
Jot He was absolved of all blame.
The blame lies with the police, who fulled to act quickly enough.
Hetried to escape blame for what he did.
The government tried to lay the blame at the door of the unions.
Idon’t blame Jack for the mistake.
Whenever something goes wrong, everyone blames iton me.
The government has been widely blamed Jfor thecrisis blameless adj.
She herself was quite blameless.
Johnson himself was far from ‘blameless.
In the test, we had to fill in the blanks.
If sou dor't know the ansuer, just leave a blank.
Soldiers fired blanks into the sky.
The screen’s gone blank.
Gina looked blank; then understanding dawned.
His mained studiously blank.
She pulled the blanket up and went to sleep.
They shivered under their thin blankets.
Twenty people were killed in the blast.
Hegavea short blaston histrumpet.
The fire brigade attended the blaze.
Strong windsfanned the blaze.
The blaze swept through the whole building.
The antiques were destroyed in a blaze lastyear.
Prospects for the industry are extremelybleak.
The report paints an unnecessarily bleak picture of the town.
The moors looked bleak and desolate in the rain.
It was a rather bleak and dis- ‘mal place.
The small ‘blood vessels in the nose bleed easils.
She was bleeding heavily from a head wound.
Some drugs can cause bleeding from the smallintestine.
The police say the suspect has aslight blemishon his left cheek.
He was pilloried, but sheescaped without blemish.
Into Blend the cocoa into the eggs.
Blend litle milk with two tablespoons of treacle.
The colour of the carpet doesn't blend in.
The ornamental pool blends perfectly with its surroundings.
Vcan bea real blessing for old people.
The government has given its oficial blessing to the project.
She received the full blessing of her employers.
Wwithout sb’s ~ He went off to Latin America with his mother’s blessing.
She saw a shadowy figure through the blind.
The strong light almost blinded him.
She went blindat theageof ten.
Heisalmost blind in oneeye.
Fiis own prablems have made ‘him completely blind to the sufferings of others.
He blinked hard and forceda smile.
She blinked at him, astonished.
Thefirst six months of marriage were sheer bliss.
They're celebrating 25years of wedded bliss.
Her feet were badly blistered.
Many people died in the London biitz.
Enems bombers carried out a blitz on the its.
We decided to have a blitz on the kitchen (= to clean the kitchen thoroughly).
Afier ashortwhile it began to blowa blizzard.
The blizzard struck while we were till on the mountain.
We got stuck in a howling blizzard.
He fought his way through the blizzard.
There have been growing tensions within the trading bloc.
The prisoners had been transferred to a differentcell block.
She lives in a modern apartment block.
The author denies that she s experiencing writer's block.
Dan't block up the corridor with all these boxes.
The exit was blocked with beer crates.
The new rules would effectively block protesters' attempts to assert thelr rights.
Thegroup has moved to block the government's proposals.
They attempted to break the blockade by using submarines.
They used chemicals to clear the blockage.
He's an ordinary bloke, despite being famous.
He's a funny bioke—you never really know what he's thinking.
He's got so many problems, poor bloke! PHRASES the Kind/sortitype of bloka He's the sort of Bloke who will never letyoudoun.
She's not just a dumb Blonde.
She was slender and a natural blonde.
He warked ta remave all traces of blood.
She'd lost a ot of bload and doctars decided to do transfusion.
He wasa hat-headed warrior; always too quick to shed blaod.
The hospital appealed for more peaple to give blood (= for blood transfusions).
The heart pumps blood around the bady.
He choked on ‘his own blaod after being shat in the thraat.
The blood spread rapidly from wherehe lay.
Blood spattered the seats of the vehicle.
Dried biood caked his hands.
He rubbed his limbs vigorausly ta get the blaod circulating.
The bioad drummed in her ears.
The bload drained from his face when T told him the news.
Our blood ron cold at the thoughtof how easily we cauld have been Killed.
In~ His shirt was soaked in blood.
In sb's/the~ Traces of an illegal substance were found in his blood.
My handkerchief was soaked in blood from my nose.
The dog’s fur was caked in bload when we found him.
He was lying an the floar; covered in blood.
This election result could well lead to further bloadshed.
The drug Is quickly absarbed inta the bloodstrea.
In sb's/the~ Traces of banned substances wers detected in his bloodstream.
Bacteria was introduced inta his blaadstream through an unsterle needle.
Red blaod cells transport oxygen through the bloodstream.
He bursta bloodvesselinafitof coughing.
The spring flawers have come inta bloam.
The small white blooms appearin May.
The blooms have started to fade na.
In~ banks of rhododendrans in bloom.
Theroses arenow in full bloom.
If's lovely in the spring when the cherry blossm is out.
He loves it when the apple trees are in blassom.
The plum tree is now in full blassam.
Jack caught him a glancing blow on the jaw.
Hekilled the man with a single blaw of his cricket bat.
The man went down in a hail of blaws.
He suffered a severe blow to the head.
It was the gardener who delivered the fotal blou.
She landed a nasty blow on his nase.
He rained heavy blaws an the old waman.
The boys exchanged blows with the police.
The children came to blows over the new toy.
She aimed a blow at Lucy.
His defeat dealt a crushing blow to the party.
Her decision to live abroad was a terrible blow toher parents.
The wind blew the papers off the tabie.
If's blowing a gale out there! blow sth off course The ship was blown off course inthestorm.
He blew on his soup to cool i, blue adj.
The government does not ‘have a blueprintfor reform.
The charter should serve asa blueprint for cooperation.
He plays blues on the accordion.
She was in the back of a smoky bar singing the blues.
Iplana hollday asa way to beat the biues.
The minister has ‘made aseries of political blunders.
The object was a dim blur in the moonlight.
His jokes produced blushes Jfrom the ladies.
She tried w hide her fiery blush.
She lowered her eves with a deep blush.
Stop teasing him—you're making him blush.
He blushed af the mention of her name.
She blushed crimson with embarrassment.
There's a notice on the board.
He sits on the company’s management board.
She put her ideas to the board.
The issue has been discussed at board level.
She was promoted and offered aseaton the board.
The massive boardroom pay awards werecriticized by the workers.
The directors were working overtime in the boardroom.
He was adrift in an open boat Jor three days.
We spent our holiday going up a canal on a narrow boat.
The liféboat was preparing to g0 to theaid of the stricken boat.
You couldn’t take a boat out in that wild sea.
My brother took us allout in his new boat.
Jfrom the Essex coast yesterday.
Normally the boat is crewed by five people.
He beached the boot and the children leapt out to explore.
The harbour was crowded, with boats berthed two and three abreast.
Sit down, you're rocking the boat.
She wos told to keep ‘her mouth shut and not rock the boat (= take unnecessary action that would cause problems).
They crossed the island to catcha bootfor islands south of Skye.
If you don't buy now, you may find that you've missed the boat (= cannot take advantage of this offer because it Istoolate).
Beth had gone down to Bombay to meet the boat on which her sister was arriving.
The boat chugged out to sea.
The boat headed upriver.
The boat pitched violently from side to side.
The boat slowly filled with icy water.
Ferry boats ply regularly between all the resorts on the lake.
The cave can only be reached by boat.
They ofe on the boat.
Her whole body trembled.
Extreme heat may cause changes in the body.
She still had the marks from the Topes on her body.
The bar is in the main body of the hotel.
Freedom of speech is ‘necessary for the health of the body politic.
The students marched in a body to the government offices.
They removedaforeign bods from her eye.
He never goes anywhere with- ‘out his personal bodyguards.
She has to have an armed bodyguard wherever she goes.
He keeps a bodyguard of ten men.
The more she struggled the deeper she sank into the bog.
The lorry had become hapelessly bogged down in the sand.
We mustn't get bogged down inall the detoil.
Just before the milk comes to the boil, turn down the heat.
Bring the soup to the boll, then simmer for five minutes.
Sfigurative) He played brilliantly for the first set but then went rather offthe boil.
The doctor lonced the boil.
Boil the beansrapidly for ten minutes.
I've just heard the hot water boller come on.
Bring the sauce to boiling point.
Add the powder when the water is at boiling.
The exciting news had mode him bold.
She closed the door quickly and pushed the bolts home.
Make sure that the rails are securely bolted in place.
The two parts are bolted together.
Their truck was hit by a stray bomb.
He described global worming as ‘an environmental time bomb ticking away.
Police suspect ferrorists planted the bomb.
Enemy planes dropped bombs along the railway line.
These verbs are only used about countrles.
India started to build a ‘nuclear bomb.
Eighty people died when bombs rained down on the city’s crowded strees.
The land was scarred with bomb craters.
The city had been very heavily bombed.
Tre city has been heavily bombarded for the last three days.
We're all constantly bombarded with television odvertisements.
They have withstood heavy bombard- ‘ment for many months.
Many people were Filled in the bombardment.
The city has been under constant bombordment for three days.
The army lounched ortillery bombordments against enemy positions.
He was shot down during a bombing raid over London.
Theneuws came asa bombsiell.
Then she dropped the bombshell—she was pregnant.
Into 7 decided t invest in some government bonds.
She was diognosed as having brittle bones.
Her eyes were black in a face the colour of bleached bones.
The black and white photographs emphasized her fine bone structure.
The Shock Jarred every bone in his body: skin and bone He's all skinand bone after his illness.
Night It was 5 November—Bonfire Night—and the children were excited.
Twenta bit bonkers when he told me the news.
Thenoise nearly drove me bonkers.
Christmas Allemployees get an annual bonus before thesummer holidays.
You will receive & bonus for high levels of productivity.
If you don't meet our targets, you'll loseyour bonus.
Xl workers participate in the bonus scheme.
Hewas awarded a cash bonus of £200.
The house is very comfortable, and s an added bonus, if's near to buses and truins.
The sunshineon thefinal day was a welcome ‘bonus for the spectators.
Lis speech was met with boos.
There were loud boos from the audience.
Interesting, remarkable, useful There's nothing like curling up with a mug of tea and a good book.
Emma’ was one of our set books for A level.
She looked up from her book and smiled at him.
Her name was inscribed in the book.
The collector had many books inscribed to him by famous authors.
These issues are discussed in his latest book.
She does the books for us.
There are few places on the course, soit is essential to book in advance.
Ifound this book in your bookcase.
Imade the booking througha travel agent.
We accept both telephoneand postal bookings.
The boom was fuelled by accelerated demand for consumer products.
He was born during the postwar baby boom.
We heard the sonic boom of a jet overhead.
The deep boom of a foghorn echoed across the bay.
The building scheme comes as an enormous boon for the building industry.
These machines have ‘proved a real boon to disabled people.
The new service helped boost pre-taxprofits by 10%.
The total was boosted to nearly £200 by donations from parents.
The meat was as tough as old boots.
She kicked at the snow with the toe of her boot.
They divided the booty among the troops.
Theretwasfree booze at the party.
We need to take some booze to the party.
He turned to booze (= started drinking a lot of alcohol) when his wife died.
She’s still trying to kick the booze (= stop drinking so much alcohol).
She's been off the booze for a month now.
Hewasdry for years butnow he's back on the booze.
Poland has a common border with Germany.
They slipped acros the border at nighifall.
There has been fighting along the ‘border: ation althe ~ We were stopped on the border: on the~of a farm on the border of Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire up to the~ He drove us right up to the Russian border.
There has been fighting on both sides.
She drew a decorative border around thepicture.
She's on the borderline between a firstand second.
Her husband is a crashing bore.
It’s an awful bore having tomeetmyaunt for lunch.
That lecture bored meto tears! bored adj.
Some children get bored very quickly.
He seemed faintly bored by the whole process.
He was ‘bored with their conversation.
He walked along, bored out of his mind.
She was alone all day and bored 1o death.
I'd die of boredom i I lived in the country.
Unemployment can drive youmad with boredom.
Sorting mail isnota jobfor people with a low boredom threshold.
Try not to make the diet boring.
That film was dead boring.
The game was boring for the spectators.
Into She was born into a wealthy famils.
Their child was born with a serlous medicat problem.
The part is played by an American-born actress.
Iwas born and bred in Liverpool.
There are factories scattered throughout the borough.
He borrowed heavily to set the company up.
His designs borrow freely from the architectureof ancient Egypt.
Her bosom rose ‘and fell; she was out of breath from keeping up with him.
She clutched her son tightly to her bosom.
Getting a taxi wilt save you the bother of picking me up from thestation.
He's in a ‘spot of bother with the police.
We found the hotel without any bother.
He's got @ spotof bother with hiseyes.
He never got 00 ‘bothered about the mess.
I'm not in the least bothered about the price.
They're not realty bothered about what you do.
He is ot that bothered about his oppearance.
He wasn't (00 bothered about the slight leak.
He was stitl bothered by a persistent leg injury.
With They did not want to be bothered with her problems.
He couldn't even be bothered to turr round.
She ‘hadgot herself all hatand bothered about the test.
Ler's crack open a bottle of champagneto celebrate.
We washed the stew down with a botle of cheap red wine.
We discussed the problem over a bottleof wine.
He reached the bottom of the steps in no time.
The boat sank to the bottom of the sea.
She could only just touch the bottom (= of a swimming pool,etc).
We rode along the bottom of the valles.
He started at the bottom and worked his way up through the company.
Theonly way to get to the bottom of it toconfront the chairman.
They sauntered along the tree-lined boulevard.
The balt bounced high and she missed it.
The stone hit the window but bounced off.
Short sound waves bounce off even small objects.
These problems were almost bound to arise.
The president said the country could not be held bound by a treaty signed by the previous regime.
Officials are bound by law to investigate any possible froud.
Weare legally bound by this decision.
From that moment my life became inextricably bound up with hers.
The river Jforms the boundary.
The boundary was fixed just south of the farm.
We've just crossed the boundary into Sussex.
They drove across the boundary.
We continued along tie southern boundary of the county.
We had to stop at the ‘boundars.
She had never strayed beyond the city boundaries.
Sussex and Surrey ~with The state hasa boundary with Ontario.
This job crosses the traditional boundary between social work and health care.
His policies appeal across party political boundaries.
In her performance she hadclearly overstepped the boundaries of good taste.
He sent hera large bouguet of wild flotwers.
He gavea format bow and left the room.
The song ended and Albert 100k a bow.
The team’s chairman takes his final bow at this match (- is retiring after this match).
Hemadea deep bow to the king.
There’s a small boat on the port bow.
They fired a shotacross our bows.
We left two men in the bows to receive the cargo.
The ship's name was printed on her bow.
There were huge waves breaking over the bows.
He swept off his hat and bowed deeply to the Queen.
The Emperor's subjects bowed down before him.
The pianist stood up and bowed (o the audience.
She tied the ribbon into a neat bow.
Shedrew and aimed her bow.
She drew the bow across the strings.
Patients are asked to report any change in bowel habit.
He's been having painful bowel movements.
Inthe~ © PHRASES irritable bowel syndrome.
In the finger bowl.
The school is always having togetout the ‘begging bowl for books and basic equipment.
He poured himself a bowl of soup.
This bowl holds about four pints.
The washing-up bow! was overflowing.
The boy was drinking milk out of a bowl.
Mix the ingredients in a deep boul.
Sieve the flowr intoa bowl.
Let's go bowling on Saturday.
McArthur opened the bowling on the irstdayof thematch.
England were no match for the Indian bowling attack.
They were sitting round the fire on upturned boxes.
The cosh box was kept in the safe at the back of the shop.
She opened her money box to see if she had saved enough for a tennis racket.
The exhibition is free, but there is a collection box for donations.
She filled the box with old clothes.
We packed all the books into boxes.
This box holds ten candles and costs £21.
The dog sleeps ina box lined with an old blanket.
There was a babble of lan- ‘guages in the commentary box when the race began.
They drank champagneas they watched the match from the executive box.
Thecar in front was pulling a horsebox.
Tick the relevant box below.
Click on ‘open file’ in the dialogue box.
In, tick, write (sth) in Put @ cross i the box if you agreewith the commens.
Unlicensed boxing can beverydangerous.
The two candidates engaged in shadow-boxing before theelection.
Hedoes boxingin his spare time.
Heis highly respected in boxing circles.
Box office receipts for the film have hit $50 million.
Ticketsare availableat the box ofice.
Your bay is quite big for his age.
Don’t cry— you're a big boynow.
Their boy is small for his age.
Our youngest boy is just starting school.
Eat up your greens—there's a good boy.
They've had a baby boy.
Tve got three boys.
Introduce Opposition groups declared a boyoott of the elections.
Lawyers threatened a boycott of the courts.
It Politicians want to end their bocott of the talks.
In There is pressure on the biggest union to Join the boycott.
The group iscalling for a mass consumer boycoti of theseproducts.
The US has imposeda boycotton some European goods.
They have urged peaple to boycott foreign producs.
She was statked by a jilted ex-bofriend.
She had a string of wealthy ‘boyfriends before she finally married.
She's unhappy because she's been having bofriend trouble.
The braces held up his trousers.
The prices are given in square brackels.
The words in brackets should be deleted.
Zhe numbers outside the curly brackets are the sales figures.
These machines are in the higher price bracket.
The left brain controls the right-hand side of the body.
In thelyour~ Doctors tried to reduce the swelling in his brain.
He was found to have a blood clot on his brain.
Agurative) He's got football on the brain (= thinks about nothing but football).
While cleaning his shotgun he had accidentally blown his awn brains out.
My tired brain couldn’t cape with such a complex problem.
We racked our brains but we couldrn't come up witha solution.
It doesn't take much brain to ‘work out that both stories can't be true.
His brain reeled as he realized the implication of his dismissal.
Sth The stopping distance includes the time taken for the braln to register the need tostap.
They retled on brains rather than brawn (= intelligence, not strength).
She Aas a good brain for mathematics.
She slammed on the brakes fo (ry to ‘avoid the dog.
My brakes arenot working properly.
The car crashed after its brakes foiled.
The need to earn some money put the brakes on my wilder ambitions.
We heard the screech of brakes, Jfollowed by a loud crash.
The train braked to @ shud.
She braked suddenly to avoid acat.
Super- ‘markets makea lotof profiton their own brand products.
He added a dash of brandy to his coffee.
She poured herself large measure of brandy.
Ill have some brandy.
Hesat cradling his brandy glass.
The door knocker was a female figure in brass.
He behaved aggressively out of bravado.
Tl befine on myown,' she said with bravado.
The men fought with great bravery.
They got caught up in a street brawl.
He refused to bow to the Queen, in deliberate breachof etiquette.
Such behaviour constitutes a breach of confidentiality.
The courts decision is in breach of the European Convention on human righss.
He was sued for breach of contract.
Shetore off a large hun of breadl.
Jam, bread and water He ‘had to live on bread and water for two weeks.
Christians during the Commu- ‘nion service) Peaple started going up to receive the bread and wine.
The poolis 5 metres in breadth.
He travels the length and breadth of (= all over) the country.
I'll see you at break.
John during the break.
We worked breakfast allday without a break.
His new work makes a break with the past.
Iucky break one day.
He's the director who gave her her first big break.
She broke thechocolate bar in tuwo and gave a piece to me.
She broke the chocolate up into small pieces.
She broke down in tearsas she spoke toreporters.
He broke off abruptly when Jo walked in.
The only ground for divorce is the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage.
Please provide us with a breakdown of expenditure by department.
Bed and breakfust accom- 'maodation is aveilable near the museum.
In bed He treated his wife to breakfast in bed on her birthday.
We have achieved G real breakthrough in the search Jor peace.
The crucial breckthrough comealmast by accident.
Smoking gives you bad breath.
He spoke solidly for twenty minutes, barely pausing to drow breath.
Toke a deep breath and try to relax.
He let out a long breath.
When hesaid he had resigned, I caughtmy breath in surprise.
Hecame up outof the water gasping for breath.
She poured out her stary, hardly pausing for breath.
It's useless tolking to him—you may cs well save your breoth.
Don't waste your breath.
He never listens to cdvice.
In gaspsipants/puffs His breathcamein short gasps.
I'ma bit out of breath after my run.
He was whispering rude remarks about her under his breath.
It wasastillday, without a breath of wind.
How can we trust a government that mentions community cere and cutbacks in the some breath? short of breath Lfelt a bit shart of breath and had to sit down.
The sheer audacity of the man took my breath wos.
She was begin: ning to breathe more easily.
He was breathing raggedly, mouth open.
She breathed slowly inand out.
He hardly dared breathe in case they heard him.
Aluays breathe through your nase.
Tloveyou," she breathed softl.
The weekend will give me a slight breather to finish this work in.
His breathing wes loboured, and he coutd hardly speak.
She picked up the phone and heard sounds of heavy breathing.
Try breathing exercises tocalm your nerves.
The unaccustomed exercise left him breathless.
By the end of the walk, she was breathiess withexertion.
Thechildren peered through the open door, breathless with excitement.
Entertainers of this sort are nowadying breed.
Heclth workers are a breed apartin their commitment and dedication to duty.
She's a lovely cat.
Her good breeding shows In her exquisite manners.
The young man clearly has breeding.
The curtains fluttered in the night breeze.
I'sa little breezyup here.
The weather at the seaside was ideal—bright and breezy.
She tried (o sound breezy on the phone.
His bright and breezy ‘manner sometimes irritated people.
He admitted paying bribes to police officers.
He paid out millions of dollars in bribes.
The charge in the present case s one of briberyand corruption.
He gof a job atthe local brick works.
They moved the whole house, brick by brick.
They put an extra course of bricks round the pool.
The bride's father traditionally walks with her to the altar to give her away.
Everyone raised their glasses to toast the bride.
The bride ‘and bridegroom received their guests in the great hall.
The bridegroom asked the guests to stand and then toasted the bridesmaids.
Floods washed away several bridges.
Cross the bridge and turn right into the town.
The new bridge willcross the Thames at this point.
The road goes under the old railway bridge.
In afthe ~ She makes all these points in her brief.
It's not port of my brief to advise on financial matters.
The men have been fully briefed about the intended mission.
Each member of my crew 100k it in turnto brief me on his particular duties.
Could you make it brief? I've got a meeting in ten minutes.
The wait was mercifully brief little more than an hour.
He wore a torn suit and carried a battered brigfcase.
She returned to Washington for a final briefing.
AlLstaff will be given a full brigfing tomorrow.
Details of the scheme will be announced ata press briefing later today.
Iook, seem The faciory’s future now looks quitebright.
The morning was quite bright, but it clouded over in the afternoon.
Her eyes were unnaturally bright.
Their rather heavy faces brightened visibly.
She brightened upa bitat the thought of the holiday.
There were flashes of brilliance from severalof the players.
Heplayed with great brilliance.
Winning that race was Just brillicnt.
Her performance was technicatly brilliant but lacked feeling.
She filled the bow! to the brim.
She watched the crowd from beneath the brimof her hat.
Scientists are on the brink of making a major ‘new discovery.
He pulled the company back from the brink (=saved it from disaster).
He questioned whether the school curriculum was broad enough in scope.
His jobgave him an acquaintance withan unusually broad spectrum of society.
More details will be given in our news broadcast.
We will broadcast tive from the ship.
Existing commercial broadcasters claim the new stations are illegal.
Send for our illustrated brochure.
Leafed through the travel brochure.
T'm stony broke at the moment.
Oneqf his legs was badly broken.
In, be made from/in/(out) of Thefigure was cast in bronze.
Sheworks mainly in bronze.
She pinned a largeamethyst brooch to her lapel.
He used tovisita brothel in Paris.
She ran a brothel in Soho.
Inalthe~Sheworks ina brothel in Brighton.
She wrote daily to her beloved brother, Leo.
He married the wifeof his late brother.
Have you g0t any brothers and sisters? liko brothers The boys aresoclose, they're like brothers.
She raised a sardonic brow.
Shearched a brow when she sauw the bill.
He knitted his brows in concentration.
His brows snapped together ferociously when he heard the remark.
He stared at the visitors beneath a furrowed brow.
She wrinkled her brow thoughtfully.
His brow furrowedas he racked his brains over the question.
For a while she looked puzzled: then her brow cleared.
His brow darkened in anger.
His shaggy grey hoir fell loosely across his brow.
His hair fell over his browas he turned his heod.
He looked very brown ofter his holiday.
She suffered only minor cuts and bruises.
His face was quite badly bruised.
She has delicate skin and bruises easily.
The prime minister has taken the bruntof thecriticism.
Scrub the wood thoroughly with water anda stiff brush.
The artist has used tiny brush strokes.
Remove all the rust with a wire brush.
She hummed hoppily as she brushed doun hercoat.
Lucille brushed at the blood on his jacket.
She carefully avoided brushing against the man sitting beside her at the table.
She brushed by him and dashed up the stalrs.
He brushed her lipswith his.
There have been many complaints of police brutality.
This was an act of extreme brutality.
They jumped about, bursting the bubbles.
Soap bubbles formed on thesurSace.
The water in the saucepan was bubbling JSuriously.
The soup was bubbling away on the stove.
Emotions quickly bubble to the surJace.
He was bubbling over with excitement.
She could feel the anger bubbling up inside her: with The business was still small but Iwas bubblingwith ideas.
The sand had spilt from the fre bucket.
She poured the bucketof dirty water dowr the drain.
The cleaner put down his mop and bucket and sat doun.
Zen She became interested in Zen Buddhism.
He refuses to budge from his principles.
The union won't budge on its demand.
He threw all his weight ‘against the door but itwouldn't budgean inch.
The organization has a large annual budget.
The school has a struggle to balance its budget.
Work out a weekly budget and stick 1o it.
In the~ Is there any money left in the budget? below/under~ Costs have been held below budget.
All his projects are on time and on budget.
This hotel caters for people travelling on a tight budget.
The % Droject is now well over budget.
The budgetfor next year hasnot et been set.
The organization acts asa buffer ‘between the managementand the union.
The running buffet is available from6pm.
Serve A finger buffet will be served.
Breakfast is served buffet style.
Stomach bug has ‘been going roundat school.
She's been bitten by thetravel bug.
In~ He's heavier in build than his brother.
She is slight of build and very agile.
We gota local builder to do the work for us.
The house looked like a builder's yard, with stacks of bricks and pilesof sand in the garden.
They were refused Dplanning permission for a modern extension because it was a Grade I1 listed building.
Several new bulldingsarenow beingputup.
The building was gutted by fire.
They're renovating the old farm buildings.
We're having ‘some bullding work done.
The leak led toa siow bulld-up of carbon dioxide.
Tension is mounting in the build-up to the elections.
My camera needs a new flash bulb.
Suwitch the light off beJore you change the bulb.
The Jitting in the Kitchen takes a fluorescent bulb.
The room was lit only by a single 40watt light bulb.
It been flickering all evening.
Coloured bulbs flashed on and off around the slgn.
These low-energy bulbs last much longer than the ordinary ones.
They sat reading by the light of @ 40-watt bulb.
Place the bulbs close together.
She usually waters the indoor bulbsonce a week.
These daffodils Jlower so early because the bulbs have been forced.
All that remained of them were clumps of brown leaves.
Over the years the bulbs gradually increase.
Get the bulbs into the ground, or they will begin to shrivel.
Sugar is imported in bulk from the mainland.
The great bulk of the work has now been done.
It's usually cheaper t0 buy in bulk.
The embassy was sprayedwith bullets.
The body was riddled with bullets.
They had put a bullet through his brain.
The second bullet hit her in the back.
The bullet missed his heart by less than an inch.
Sureons are trying lo remove a bullet lodged near his spine.
Itisa bullet from the same gun that killed the Italian.
The second bullet it her in the back.
They died in a hailof ‘bullets.
Shetwas shot through the head by asniper's bullet.
The government will issue an official bulletin later this week.
More details will be given in our next news bulletin.
The detailsare in the June bulletin.
They've been sitting on their bums all day, doing nothing.
He gota nasty bump on his head.
Wehit a bump and the car swerved.
The cars crawled along bumper to bumper (= very close toeach other).
Her biack hair was drown back into a neat bun.
She put all the flowers together in one big bunch.
He gave me a huge bunch of red roses.
They area bunch of emateurs.
In, wrap sth (up) in He tied his belongings up in a bundle and left.
The papersarein a bundle on my desk.
The manager carries the greatest burden of responsibility.
She had to shoulder the burden of childcare.
ImPpose, place His ilness placed an intolerable burden on his family.
The administrative burden must be lifted from local government.
The economic burden falls mainly on businesses.
Laxation ~onlupon easing the financial burden on families ~to Shefelt she was a burden io her parenis, PHRASES tha burden of proof (law) (= the responsibility of proving that sth is true) The burden of proof fallson the prosecution: the accused is presumed innocent until proved guilty.
He fias the burden of a large family on his shoulders.
The women carried thelr burdens on their backs.
You can get more information at your local citizen's advice bureau.
She had a friend in the press bureau.
The organization has promised to eliminate cumbersome and unnecessary bureaucracy.
He was just another faceless bureaucrat.
The crganization is highIy bureaucratic.
Police are hunting burglars whostole property worth £3 500.
The burglar had broken in through a windouw.
Burglars had already struck twice that week in their road.
Audlo equipment was stolen in a burglary at @ house in Main Rood.
We want to give him a decent Christian burial.
His body was returned home for burial.
He was treated in ‘hospitalfor 60 per cent burns.
The car was found abandoned in a wood, completely burnt out.
Several people were burnt to death.
The building was burnt to the ground.
The fire was still burning fiercely.
Fresh leaves will burn slowly with billowsof smoke.
Their torches burnt brightly in the dark.
She could sense the anger burning slowly inside him.
He was burning with indignation.
He switched off the bedside lamp and burrowed down beneath the bedclothes.
Rabbits had burrowed under the Jfence.
Earthworms burrow deep into the subsoil.
Iy had burrowed its way through the walls.
In~s Heworks in short bursts.
The ship was burst apart and its crew blosted to pieces.
My whole head felt like a ipe tomato, ready to burst.
Instantly, promptly She took one look at the mess and promptly burst into tears.
He was just about to burst into song.
Those people are nowall dead and buried.
Their ambitions were finally dead and buried.
The waste is buried deep underground.
The miners were buried alive when the tunnel collapsed.
The building was now buried under three metres of soil.
Your letter got buried under a pile of papers.
He slumped forward, the knife buried deep in his hest.
The king is dead and lies buried at Jedburgh Abbey.
Thereare regular busesto the city centre.
Lwaited 40 minutes for a bus.
Local buses run regularly 10 and Jrom the nearest town.
The ‘bus pulled up and we got on.
The buses stop outside the post office.
The double decker bus stopped to pick up some more passengers.
Buses leave from here every hour or so.
Look up the bus times in the local timetable.
If'sabout 15 minutes away by bus.
She was hiding in the bushes attheside of the lane.
He's someone I can do business with (= that 1 find it ‘easy/pleasant to do business with).
Ske works in the computer business.
The firm went out of business during the recession.
The new regulations will put many small Sfirmsout of business.
You can call the helpline during normal business _hours.
The company's offices are located in the new business park out of toun.
I's business as usual at the factory, even while investigators sift through the bomb wreckage.
Rome business or pleasure? mix business with pleasure When I travel abroad I like to mix business with pleasure.
She's in Europe drumming up business for her newcompany.
We're losing business to our main rivais.
Business is booming for estate agents in the south as the property market hots up.
After a slack period business is now picking up.
They decided to start their own business.
We built up the business from nothing.
In He works in the family business.
We are looking to grow the business over thenext couple of years.
After six months the business really took off.
The ‘business isexpanding fast.
You ‘have no business (= no right) being here.
Iwasjust sitting there, minding my own business, when & man started shouting at me.
My private lifeis none of your business (= does ot concern you).
I'm not going to talk business tonight.
I'll be glad when the whole business is over and done with.
It was ar awful business—he couldn't work for months.
I'd rather keep therelationship strictly businesslike.
She needed to keep busy.
Shewas busy with her make-up.
Heputa large knob of butter on the potatoes.
Put some butter on the crackers, please.
He spread butter on the roll.
Cream the butter and icing sugar together until light and AUuffy.
Rub the butter into the flour.
This butter doesn't spread very well.
The butter melted in the hea.
The butterfly emerged from the pupa.
Now we're in business .
The top button of his shirt was undone.
My coat has lost a button.
There was a button missing from his shirt.
Ske hit the alarm button as fast as she could.
Click the left mouse button twice.
The remote control allows you to change channel at the touch of a button.
Old bikes can be bought quite cheaply.
He boughta car for hisdaughter.
She makes her living buping and selling antiques.
If's the best that money can buy.
There are some things money can't buy.
The houses aresmalland inexpensive, ideal for first-time buyers.
They quickly found a buyer for their house.
Have you gota buyer for your house yet? © PHRASES buyer beware In matters of second-hand cars, your motto should be ‘buyer beware' (= the buyer is responsible for checking the quality of the goods).
In a buyer's market, the commodity is plentiful and so ts price is not high.
There was a buzz of excitement all round the room.
Press the buzzer when you want to talk.
The buzzer went off ateighto'clock.
That stretch of bypass will be finished by January.
We drove round the bypass to the airport.
Ler's take a cab.
We couldn’t find a cab anyuhere near.
We decided 0 sharea cab.
The cab pulled up and they got out.
In althe ~ The driver was sitting in his cab.
There was a meeting of the full Cabinet this afternoon.
The inner Cabinet is to meet again today.
The prime minister reshuffled changed) his Cabinet yesterday.
The defeat in the vote forced the Cabinet tochange its policy on immigration.
The affair led to a mid-term Cabinet reshuffle (= ‘when the prime minister/president changes some of the people in the Cabinet).
In a/tho ~ Past reports are kept in the iling cabinetinmyoffice.
Roads have to be dug upto lay underground cabies.
Engineers plan to run the telephone cables under the river.
Connect the cable (0 the correctterminal.
These fibre-optic cabies can carry tele- ‘phonecallsand computer data.
The old woman gave a cackle of laughter.
He cackled wildlyat the thought.
Christmas, wedding 7 blew out the candles on my birthday cake.
He cut her a sliceof cake.
Spread the cake with the butter cream.
Everyone cheered as the bride and groom cut the wedding cake.
Pour the cake mixture into a greased and lined tin.
The amount is calculated according to the number of years you have paid into the scheme.
The sum involved was calculated at $52 million.
He correctly calculated that the others would not darefight back.
She caught a coolly calculating glint in the other woman's eye.
He has a cold and calculating mind.
If your calculations are correct, then we will make a large profit.
It turned out thatour calculations were incorrect.
Even a rough calculation shows that you have spent too much.
She did a rapid calculation in her head.
We cannot make a precise calculation of the price until we have all the costs.
Exam candidates are not allowed to ‘useadvanced calculators with database capabilty.
The calves are grazed intensively during their first season.
InWith~ Their prize cow is in calf (= pregnant).
Il just make a quick phone call.
Last night's defeat should ‘bea wake-upcallfor the team.
Give us a call to say when you have arrived.
She asked her secretary to place a call through to England.
I'll take the call upstairs.
Ask the receptionist to put your call through tomy room.
Were there any calls for me while I was out? ~from You had a call from Fred.
Thiselection is aclarion call for our country to face the challenges of the newera.
The doctor has several calls to make this morning.
Our first port of call (= the first place we went to) was the chemist's.
This is the last call for passengers travelling on British Airways flight 199 to Rome.
Drink-drive campaigners have renewed their call for the introduction of random breath tests.
Around 10000 workers heeded the union’s strikecall.
The charity issued a call for donations to assistulctims of the earthquake.
The president's speech was a call to arms to restore the vitality of the American dream.
Weusuallycall him by his nickname.
Under his apparent calm lay real anxiety.
She felt not fear; but a kind of dead calm.
T'm calling the police,* he stated with deadly calm.
The government ap- ‘pealed for calm after the riots broke out.
After the bomb, an uneasycalm settled on thecits.
The pilot urged the passengers to remain calm.
You seem remarkabiy calm.
Her voice was firmand perfectly calm.
The pain had receded and he felt curiously calm.
The volce sounded reassuringly calm.
Sheseemed pretty calmabout it PHRASES cool, calm and collected He remained atall times cool, calm and collected.
The sea was dead.
Sweets and biscults have a lot of empty calories in them.
You need to exercise more to burn off the calories.
Some people count calories all their lives.
Fruit s relatively low in caloris.
Simply pointyour camera at the subject and press the button.
The royal couple posed for the cameras.
He couldn’t bring himself to face the cameras and left by a back exit.
Install Closed-circuit cameras ‘have been installed throughout the building.
The crews have been setting up their cameras.
The camera has caught the expression on the Queen’s face beautifully.
The directar gave the signal and the cameras rolled.
She stepped onto the balcony and a thousand cameras clicked.
In front of the ~s He played his first metch at Everton in front of the TV cameras.
The incident occurred off camera (= was not filmed).
The moment ‘wascaught oncamera.
He was wearing army camouflage.
The animal's markings provide effectivecamouflage.
They camouflaged their truck with fallen pine branches.
The vehicles were all well camouflaged.
Themountaineers et up their base campat the footof the mouniain.
We pitched camp Just outside the woods.
We broke camp arly the nextmorning.
The children are spending a week at a summer camp.
In afthe~ She spent five year in a labour comp.
The region split into two armed camps.
He can unite the party because he "hosafoot in both camps.
She hasfought a one-woman campaign for ten years about the lack of childcare provision in the town.
The company launched a huge advertising campaign.
People have criticized the way in which she conducted her election campaign.
She led a successful campaign against the closure of the library.
The government has intensified the military campaign against the rebels.
The general clection compaign gets underway today.
The campaign aims to inform the public of the dangers of this disease.
Thecampaign Jfatled to achieveits objectives.
Education has become an important compaign issue.
They met regularly during the campaign.
After siding in the opinion polls, the party had to rethink its plan of campaign.
Weuwill campaign hard for an end to the ivory trade.
Local people have successfully campaigned against the building.
Local communities are campaigning against the dumping of toxic waste.
We have campaigned for better rural transport.
De Mongort University has ‘campuses in Milton Keynes and Leicester.
Students at the Belfast campus have access toexcellent sports facilities.
They maved off campustashareaflat in the town.
She lives on campus.
This special type of milk comes inacan.
We opened a can of sardines for lunch.
She drained her can of beer and threw it away.
He emptied a can of beans into the pan.
He was filling a jerry can with petrol from the pump.
The barge moved slowly along the canal.
They opted for rescheduling rather than outright cancellation.
We may be able to offer ‘yousome tickets if we have any canceliations.
Can cellations must be made in writing.
Heavy seas can cause cancellation offerry serovices.
The cancer has spread to his stomach.
He died afteran 1§ month battle againstcancer: = Special pageat ILLNESS candid adj.
He wasquitecandid about the way the case had been handled.
Prospective parliamentary candidates met party leaders last week.
She's a likely candidate for promotion.
There were no suitable candidates for the position.
The successul candidatewill be fluent in Frenchand German.
She decided to stand as a candidate in the union elections.
Our organization is putting up five candidates in the elections.
The committee will select the best candidate for the job.
We rejected most of thecandidates as unsuitable.
Shewas the only candidate for the post.
Traces of cannabis were found in the pilot’s blood.
Riot police used water cannon and tear gas todisperse the crowd.
Cannons thundered to their right.
As the king stepped ashore thecannonsfired a salute.
The foot soldiers were just used as cannon fodder (= considered not as people but as material to be used up in war).
Wecrossed the lake by cance.
The trees formeda leafy canopy above their heads.
The bottle has a screw cap.
Put the cap back on the pen.
The company's manufacturing capability is quite limited.
She has the capability to become a very fine actress.
The government wants io increase itsmilitary capability.
Organizing a whole department is beyond his capability.
I'm sure that your new job is welt within your capabilities.
She could hardly belleve him capable of such kindness.
She is more than capable of looking after herself.
He was barely capable of writing his own name.
He was not physically capable of climbing outof the windou.
The qualification should increase my earning capacity.
The mountain walk s well within the capacity of most fit people.
Inyour~Inmy capacity as president, I would like tothank Jack for his hard work.
He had various ideas on how to raise capital Jfor the project.
The company has puta lot of capital into the project.
We car't expect the government to put up the capital.
He sank vast ‘amounts of capital in the venture.
Our capital isall tied up in property.
Inner city areas require a large inJection of capital.
Investars want an immediate return on their capital.
The department store has branches in all major capitals.
Las Vegas s the gambling capital of the world.
To avoid capture by theenemy, he swallowed a cyanide capsule.
Theterrorists willonly release thelr captives if they get what they want.
She was held captive ina castle.
The children were held in captivity until British soldiers entered the village.
The prisoners were released from captivity after three months.
She was tortured many times during her captivity.
That description captures perfectly the Jeeling of being inuisible.
The exhibition on India faiis to capture the great diverslty of thisfascinating country.
The government wants morepeople to use public transport insteadof private cars.
Panda, patrol, police, squad, unmarked Police in an unmarked car had been following the stolen vehicle for several minutes.
There wasa line of parked cars in front of the building.
It'svery expensive to run a car these days.
It's 100 Jar to walk.
You lock up the houseand I'llget the car out.
T've got to take the car in for service.
Despite the cold, the car started first time.
The car does 55 miles per gallon.
Her carskiddedon apaichof ice.
His car At a van coming in the opposite direction.
There's notenough car parking in the town centre.
They take the children to school by car.
The number of carson the roods is increasing all the time.
The local farmer lets holiday caravans park on his land.
Cashew nutsare rich incarbohydrate.
Diamonds are crystals of pure carbon.
Trees absorbcarbon dioxide and produce oxsgen.
How is carbon dioxide formed? Coke burns with oxygen togive carbon dioxide.
She paid for her holiday by creditcard.
Tll put the mealon my card.
The restaurant accepts all major credit cards.
Eversoneatwork signed a card for her.
Pick a card,” said the conjurer.
The kidnappers hold all thecards (= arein control of the situation).
We play cards every Friday night.
He aluays wins atcards.
Playing cards two, three, etc.
Jack, queen, king, ace of ~s the ace of spades high, low~ a towclub black, red~ Youcan't puta red five on a red six.
Why didn’t you pick up the king? have, hold~ He knew his opponents held only spades and diamonds.
She putdown a joker: lead~ Youshould have led a high spade.
Useyour ace and king to draw the trumps.
He trumped my ace! ~be trumps/wild/high ‘Spades are trumps.
This time twos are wild, aces high.
We needed 10 tae three more spade tricks.
Youcan play either a nine or a jack on a ten.
There was a lifesize cardboard cut-out of Elvis Presley in the shop windouw.
She's still very frail and will need lots of tender loving care.
Intensive Last night she was critically ill in intensive care.
Heleft his job totake careof his sick wife.
The boys were taken intocare when their parents died.
He had been in foster care since he was five.
You won't come {0 any harm while you're in their care.
Many historic sites are in the care of the National Trust.
He's under the care of Dr Parks.
Great care should be taken toensure that the equipment is clean.
The little girl was writing her name with painstaking care.
He takes excessive care of his appearance.
The householder hasa duty to lake reasonable care for the visitor's safety.
He hardly cares what he does any more.
He really cares about the environment.
Tdon't care any more).
He had a distinguished career s a diplomat.
He did a film for Hollywood to boost his flagging career.
He made a good career for himself in football.
She pursued a successful career in medicine.
Her siage career spanssixty years.
The profession has no clear career structure.
He /ias ‘had a someuwhat chequered career.
She started her working career as a waitress.
Thie lorry careered off theroad and hita tree.
Bitter past experience had made ‘her careful of what sheconfided to Nadia.
Be extra careful when walking along country roads.
She was quite careful about how she spoke tohim.
He's very careful of his reputation.
She's extremely careful with money.
She had begun togrow careless.
Boredom made him careless.
She's careless about her spelling.
He's very careless with money.
His fingers gently caressed her cheek.
The terrorists parked the van with its deadly cargo in a dark alleyway.
The boats discharged their human cargo a little way from the shore.
The ship stopped to take on @ cargo of fruit.
The port handles cargo from all over Europe.
She draws caricatures of well-knoun politicians.
Thefilm gives a crudecaricatureof African history.
Ididn't expect to get the red carpet treatment (= be treated like an important person).
I'm having the carpets fitted today.
They grey viny! floor gave way tocarpettiles.
The cat curled upon thecarpet.
The leaves formed a carpet under the trees.
The house s carpeted throughout.
The churchyard was thickly carpeted with snowdrops and primroses.
There'sa seat in thenextcarriage.
The accident happened on the southboundcarriageway of the M1.
They dangled the carrot of a large salary in front of me.
In the old days coal supplies came by cart.
She brought the vegetables in an ox cart.
Jump in the back of my cart.
Thesoup issold in cartons.
He draws strip cartoons for “The Guardian'.
It was a simple case of mistaken identity.
After the exams, the teacher gave all borderline cases a spoken test.
Except in a fow rare cases, bee stings are not dangerous.
He highlighted the case of Harry Farr 25, who was executed for cowardicein 1916.
The committee has full powers to deal with any cases of maipractice that arise.
In her case, she ailed the exam because she wasn’t well.
In point Many professions feel they deserve higher pas, and nurses area casein point.
It remains the case that not enough graduates are going into teaching.
Medical students study the case histories of many patients.
Four police officers are investigating the case.
They never solved the Jones murder case.
Adetective ison the caseat the moment.
This is a iest case whichwill influence what other judges decide.
This was the hardest case she had handled since becoming a lawyer.
The court will consider the case soon.
The case will be heard in the Courtof Appeal.
The case was thrown out for lack of evidence.
The prosecution decided (o drop the case.
The case was seitled out of court.
The case came before Judge Hales in the Crown Court.
He was soclearly innocent, the case should never have gone to court.
The case against her collapsed when a key witness was proved to have lied.
The case hinged on the evidence of the only witness to the killing.
The case raises a number of ssues.
The case against her was very weak.
T'hejudge ruled that the defendant had no case to ansuwer, as the evidence had been discredited.
With his current superb form, he presents an unansuwerable case for selection in the team.
The defendant requested more time to prepare his case.
The local MP has taken up thecase of the famils of stx who have been left homeless.
The teacher must judge each case according (o its merits.
The disciplinary committec considered the merits of his case before fining him.
She kept all her trophies ina display case.
He put the binoculars back in their carrying case.
The room was fullof stuffed animalsin glasscases.
In Polish the ver ' be' takes the instrumental case.
The drugs are sold for hard cash.
We'll have to pay cash for the tickets.
The bank should hold enough cash to satisfy customer demand.
The thieves stole £200 in cash.
You can pay bychequeor in cash.
They had a footbail match 1o raise cash for the hospital.
The compuny is having cash flow problems.
Put the chicken pieces ina casserole.
He inserted a cassette into the machine.
She put on a U2 cassette.
I've got iton cassette.
The play hasa lorgecastof characters.
Jane Simms heads the cast of this brilliant production.
He belongs to oneof the highest castes.
They had to approach the castle through thick swomps.
Edinburgh castle was loyally held ir the queen’s name.
The castle perches on a high rocky outcrop.
The castle overlooks the town.
She sounded almost casual.
There was something a little too carefully casualin his toe.
He wasvery casual about it all.
Inflict The guerrillas inflicted heavy casualties on the local population.
Our division suffered only light casualties.
He was adrmitted to casualty with head injuries.
He works asa doctor in casualty.
She went to Africa to photograph big cots.
Cheshire He was grinning like a Cheshire cat.
We have a pet cat called Archie.
They didn't want kittens, so they had their cat spoyed.
The stray cats are wormed and treated with flea powder.
The catwas in constant pain so they had it put down.
The cat miowed pitifully.
There was a cat yowling outside my window last night.
The cot slunk away into the darkness.
Cots mark their territory by spraying.
In our childhood Irina and I fought like cat and dog.
Young car thieves enjoy playing cat and mouse with the police.
Look through the catalogue and find this picture.
More detoils are given in our catalogue.
Send afffor our illustrated catalogue of garden plants.
These polictes could lead the country to environmental catastrophe.
We had a few catastrophes with the food for the party.
The area is now facing economic catastrophe.
Roger took some brilliant cotches attoday's match.
Fisher- ‘men have been landing record catches this season.
Catches fell because of the newdam.
Fran slipped the catch on thedoor; then turned to say goodbye.
These factors can be convenientlycategorized under three headtngs.
Her work is difficult to categorize.
We categorize voters by their choice of newspaper Into Categorize the plants into four groups.
The towns investigated fellinto two broad categories.
He competed in the youngest age category.
The great Gothic cathedral dominates thecity.
Inalthe ~ Wewent to mass In the cathedral.
Farmers drove cattle along major roads as a protest ogainst high taxes.
Cattle were first domesticated in Neolithic times.
Cattle that stray onto the electricrailway line are killed instantly.
There was a cattle grid across theroad to stop the cows escaping.
Electric cattle prods were used against the demonstrators.
Smoking is a common cause of premature death.
There is no reasonable cause to suspect an_ unnatural death.
The real causef the probtem lies in the poor construction of the bridge.
He died of natural causes.
We have good cause to believe that he was involved in the crime.
The experts may find cause to disagree with the schools decision.
Her health is giving us great cause for concern.
The onus Is on government departments 1o show ‘cause why information cannot be disclosed.
There is no cause for alarm.
The different groups support a common cause.
She was keen to do anything that would further the cause.
She has taken up the cause of animal rights.
He pleaded the cause of the local fishermen.
The function took @ lot of organizing, but was allin a good cause.
The utmost caution must be exercised when handling explosives.
We proceeded with due caution.
We urge caution in the use of this medication.
The information should be treated with ‘some caution.
He received a formal caution.
They let her offwith a caution.
Herexperiences have made her cautious.
Doctors are understandably cautious about this new treatment.
He warned us (o be cautious of accepting their statements as fact.
We explored the rocky caves along the beach.
We took shelter in a dark, dank cave.
Insert She inserted a CD into the machine.
You can record your own CDif you ‘have the right equipment.
This is the CD-ROM edition of theencyclopedia.
My job had effectively ceased to exist.
The bird's song ceased abruptly.
The conversation ‘had long ceased to interestme.
The UN has passed a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire.
There are concerns that the ceasefire might not hold.
The palace is famous for its 17th-century painted ceilings.
The bathroom as mirrorsfrom ceiling fo floor.
They have put a ceiling on the price of petrol.
The government has decided to lift price ceilings on bread, milk and other staples.
He has become celebrated asan artist.
The area s celebrated for its food and wine.
There were wild street celebrations when England won the Cup.
They held a special celebration in his honour.
They organized a dinner in celebration of theyear’s successes.
Tke victory was a cause for great celebration.
They held celebration to mark Jorty years of the lifeboat service.
Tonight skow features a host of celebrities.
The show's success made her an overnight celebrity.
He became something of a celebrity in his home town.
Chop the celery and add it to the salad.
He was buried in a private cemetery.
The film has been heauily censored.
The government has imposed strict censorship on the press.
Political censorship has been tightened under the new regime.
Hecouldfacecensure from: hs colleagues.
Right-wing parties tabled a motion of censure against the government.
The manager was severely censured for negligence.
The club will hold a party to celebrateits centenary.
Noteat MEASURE central od).
Our house s very central, sowe can easily get totheatres andcinemas.
This distinction is of absolutely central importance.
Thesefacts arecentralto the case.
We've bought aflatin the very centre of Cambridge.
Landon is one of the main financial centres of the world.
The university isa major centre for scientific research.
Later centuries saw the developmentof acomplextransport system.
The fown's population doubled during the 19th century.
There have been orchards in this region for centuries.
He lived in the 16th century.
America’s influence on culture grew throughout the 20th century.
The monarch's role is purely ceremondal.
The marriage ceremony was performed by the bishop.
In althe~ They were married ina simple ceremons.
Without ceremony, the woman slammed the door shut inmy face.
With due ceremony, he took the oath to become president.
Makecertain that you lock the door if you go out.
Areyou quite certain about this? PHRASES can't/couldn’t say for certain I think she's @ teacher, but Icouldn'tsay for certain.
Idor't know for certain how many people are coming.
With~ I couldn't say with absolute certainty that he's here.
Gertainty There seems (o bea lack of certainty over wha we should do.
Theonecertainty leftina changing world is death.
The police are waiting for the doctor to issue a death certificate.
She wore a long gold chain round her neck.
The prisoner was led auway in chains.
Let the dog ofits chain.
They keptthe dogona chainallday long.
Themayor was wearing his chain of office.
The people formed a human chain to pass the supplies up the beach.
This hotel is part of a large chain.
There has been an unbroken chain of great violinists in the family.
He lay back in the reclining chair and went 1 sleep.
She returned to the swivel chair behind her desk.
Please, be my guest.
He pulled out a chair for her.
He gave her his chai.
He pushed back his chair and got fo his feet.
Infinto/on, sink (back/down) into, slump (back/down) Infinto, sit (down) in/on She dropped her bags and flopped down into the nearest chair.
He put his feet up on the desk and lay back in his chair.
They straightened in their chalrs when the manager burstin.
He got up from his chair to address the meeting.
He was shifting about uneasily in his chair.
She tipped her chair back and fixed her gaze jull upon him.
Sheswivelled round in her chair and picked up the phone.
The chair creaked every time I moved.
Hesank into his chair and opened the lette:in althe~ She leaned back in her chair and lita cigarette.
She gripped the arm of her chair as she spoke.
Anne took the chair (= was chairperson) in Carol’s absence.
Please address your questions to the chair.
Paul Ryan was in the chair (= was chairman)at today’s meeting.
He held the Chair of Botany at Cambridge University for thirty years.
Chair of Japanese Literature.
She is married t a company chairman.
Thechairman resigned following the allegations.
She had scrawled a nofe in chalk across the ‘blackboard.
Lisz('s piano music presents an enormous technical challenge.
The gallery hasrisen tothe challenge of exhibiting the works of young artists.
He 'has taken on some exciting new challenges with this job.
The demonstration represents a direct challenge to the new lauw.
Our team will have to fight off the challenge from beiter trained teams.
The newspaper was directly challenging the government's legitimacy.
She was effectively challenging the whole basis on which society was run.
The story was completely untrueand was successfully challenged in court.
She challenged him on his oldfashioned views.
No one has seriously challenged the champion.
Shewas poised to challenge for the party leadership.
The count challenged him to a duel.
Her nearestchallenger is the vice-president.
He took on various challengers, but refused to fight Jackson.
European title ~toa challenger to the prime minister challenging adj.
We have changed the courseto makeit morechallenging.
Hefound the course academically challenging.
The tasks were not challenging enough for me and I got bored.
Millions died in the gas chambers in the war.
She belicves there should be an elected second chamber to replace the Housecf Lords.
I'll have some champagne, please.
They sal there sipping their champagne.
The cham- ‘pagne flowed like water at the wedding reception.
The champagne had been left open and had gonefflat.
We heard the sound of popping champagne corksnextdoor.
There was achampagne reception before the concert.
The reigning champion will defend her title tonight.
He was crowned champion after his fight in Atlanta.
Over thirty children will compete in the swimming championships.
She has won four major championships in the last five years.
He's won the cham- ‘plonship for the third time in a row.
Shemanaged to retain the championship.
There's a fair chance that nobody will come (o the talk.
As long as there is an outside chance, we will go for it.
Thedoctors gave him (- said that he had ) little chance of surviving the night.
After a poor start, they are now inwitha chance of winning the league.
Themissing climber's chances of survival areslim.
Fat chance (= there is no chance) of him helping you! have every chance She haseverychance of passing the exar if she works hard.
Will he lend us his car? *No chance!” on the off chance (= just in case) I rang the firm just on the off chance that they might have a vacancy.
She played left- ‘handed to give her opponent a fair chance.
This Is the ideal chance for him to show his ability.
This is your big chance~grab itwith both hands.
Ilast, second The teacher gave her one last chance to ‘prove she could behave.
There are no second chances in this business.
The new college is intended to improve the life chances of children in the inner city.
He deserves the chance togive his side of the story.
No child should be denied the chance of growing upinafamily.
The team created severalclear chances but failed to scure.
She spotted_her chance of making a quick profit.
Travis had left the door open— she seized her chance and was through it like a shot.
They blew their chance to go second in the league.
Given the chance, Id stop wark fomorrauw.
The dog always runs off when it gets half a chance.
If she let thischanceslip, she would regret itfor the rest of her life.
The guide book didn't mention the hotel, but we decided to takea chance.
The manager took a chance on the young ‘goalkeeper.
The police were taking no chances with the protesters.
By happy chance he bumped into anold friend on the plane.
Leaving nothing to chance, he delivered the letter himself.
The police came upon the hideout purely by chance.
Igot mast answers right through sheer chance.
Chess is not a game of chance.
Wholesale Television has undergone a sea change in the last two years.
He made a rapid gear change as he approached the bend.
It made a pleasant change not having to work.
We are going to introduce a few changes to the system.
He needs 1o shaw a change in attitude if he is to succeed.
Courses affered in schools reflect changes in the job market.
Businesses have to adapt to change.
Train times are ‘subject tochange without notice.
The last few years have seen a changein attitudes tosingle parents.
Takea change of clothes in case you get dirty.
He said he's not coming, but he might have a change of heart.
In the current climate of change, adaptabiity is vital.
The eighties were a period of great change in publishin.
The president realized he could not ‘hold back the tide of change, and resigned.
He emptied his pockets of loose change.
In~ Tve got about 25 dollars in change.
Ask the cashier if she has change for a £20note.
This machine does not give change.
The meal lefi me with not much changefrom £100.
Our way of life has changed dramatically over the last ten years.
Jane has changed @ lot since she went to university.
The vitlage has actually changed very litele in the last hundred yeors.
The language is changing all the time.
Leeds changed from a small market town .
Intoa busy ity Into, to Hisanger charged 1o sadness.
The town had changed out of all recognition.
This channel broadcasts 24 hoursa day.
There’s an interesting documentaryon Channel dtonight.
Indiract Journalists always have indirect channels for getting information.
She first tried ta get a doctor’s certificate through official channels.
Ifyou wantavisa, you will have to go through the proper channels.
The government hopes 1o settle thedispute through diplomatic channels.
Irrigation channels supply the crops with water.
The estate hasfountains and water channels.
You could hear thefootballchants a long way from the stadium.
In The game ended in choos.
The country is sliding into economicchaos.
Chaos broke out when the ire tarted.
Ilostmy bag in theensuing chaos.
The government collapsed and chaos reigned.
In~The airport was inchaos during the strike.
The country was brought (o the brink of chaos.
His ‘brave leadership has created order out of chaos.
Doctors worked day and night ‘amid scenes of utter chaos.
Things have been getting chaoticin the office recently.
It was really chaotic just before the show started.
Things can befairly chaotic in our house.
He was a pleasant chap but didn't talk much.
The poor old chap was very shaken by the experience.
He's not such a bad chap really.
He's a decent sort of chap.
Tiey were married ina wedding chapetin Las Vegas.
The chapel is dedicated to St Michael.
Baptist, Methodist, Nonconformist, etc.
He goes (o chapel every Sunday.
They are still at chapel (= st a service).
They agreed to meet at the chapel after the service.
You must have come across some real characters, working in thectrcus.
The pub was full of colourful local characters.
She revealed her true character when anyone disagreed with her.
She's undergone a complete character change since her promotion.
Applicants were required (o obiain character references before being considered for the work.
The defence lawyer attempted a character assassination of the witness (= tried to show the witness had abad character).
If's not in his character to tell lies.
The lawyer argued that his client's violent behaviour was outaf choracter.
Food in Italy hasa distinct re- ‘gional character.
The de- ‘velopment detracts from the rural character of the ares.
The houses are Mediterranean incharacter.
His face has character—I'll say thatfor it.
The restaurant is cheapand.
Jull of character: have a character of its own/all (of) its ‘own Your handuriting hasa character of s own.
The team showed great character incoming back towin.
Adventure camps areconsidered to be character-building.
The main character is played by Nicole Kidman.
Kill off The writers Killed off her character when she wanted to leave the soap.
The actors remained in character to answer questions from the audierce.
The tuo species have several characteristics in common.
Irefused t0 go along with their pathetic charade.
She struggled to maintain the charade of not ‘being afraid.
Thereis a quarterly standing charge.
We makea smallcharge for wrapping your gift.
All cancellations incur a charge.
This service is available at a nomiral charge.
The hotel operates a bus service to the villagefor a small charge.
There is no charge for cashing traveller's cheques.
The company will deliver free of charge.
He was found guilty on a reduced charge of assault.
Police ‘have brought a charge of dangerous driving against the ‘man.
She is almost certain to face criminal charges.
He has admitted the murder charge.
The prime minister dismissed the charge that he had misled Parliament.
Heaccused the government of Jubricating the charges for politicalreasons.
The charges will be difficult to prove.
The court dismissed the charge against him.
At the police station a charge ‘sheet was made out.
The charges against you have been dropped.
Many victims of crime are reluctant to press charges against their attackers.
The conductor has overall charge of the train.
She took personal charge of the files.
Stephen will resume sole charge for the time being.
We need somebody to take charge of the financial side.
John has been put in chargeof marketing.
Ineed to feel more in charge of my life.
The child is under my charge until the mother returns from abroad.
Gavalry They were driven back by a police baton charge.
The bugle sounded the charge.
Firms are free to charge whatever they like for thelr services.
Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year it is incurred.
Stamp Duty will be charged at one per cent, for We don't charge for delivery.
The ban charges a commission on all foreign currency transactions.
The cost is charged directly to the profit and loss account.
The teenagers were jointly charged with attempted murder.
She has not yet been formally charged with the offence.
The children wereall charging around outside.
She charged into the room.
Therhina charged headlong towards us.
It wise lo lake a fully charged spare batlery with you.
She had a highly charged emotional life.
The room was charged with hatred.
All the proceeds from thesale will goto charity.
They are proud people who don’t accept charity.
They have no moneyandareforced tolive on charity.
Theschool raised over a hundred pounds for charity.
His natural charm and wit made him very popular.
The farmhouse had a certain rustic charm about t.
The uillage still retains a lot of its oldworld charm.
He can certainly turn on the charm when he wants to! ‘o Inagged him for a week and used all my feminine charm.
He oozes charm, but Iwouldn't trust him.
He was unabie to resist her charms.
Many women had succumbed to his charms.
The dining room was dark and gloomy, and the food was similarly lacking in charm.
The idea of being a farmer had lost its charm for me by this time.
She looked small and gentleandaltogether charming.
The meat was slightly charred.
Each classroom hasa lip chart towriteon.
The percentage of school-leavers is shown on the chart.
The islands were not marked on their chart.
Their single went straight into the charts at number one.
His latest single hit the charts last week.
The song topped thecharts for three weeks.
The film ends with a long car chase.
Hesent uson a wild goose chase (= a search for sth that cannot be found).
The old lady shouted for help and then gave chase.
Exhausted and hungry, the hunters finally gave up the chase.
Join (in) Several children joined in the chase.
In~(of) She ran inchase of the pram.
We ad a nice chat over a cup of tea.
Mr Blair and a journalist ~to/with I'll have achatto Johnabout it.
You will have a chance to circulate and chat informally.
We chatted briefly about the weather: to George was in the kitchen chatting to some friends.
Her constant chatter was starting to annoy me.
She was full of chatter about her new Sriends.
He chattered on ~happlly for about half an hour.
We chattered about work.
The chauffeur drove them straight to the theatre.
The newly-weds set off in chauffeur-driven limousine.
They're selling fabrics cheap this week.
Shoes ke that don’t come cheap.
At £60000 the car is not exactlycheap (=it is very expensive).
The watch was suspiciously cheaps it was probably a fake.
The school managed to get a coupleof computers on the cheap.
The glasses are plain without looking cheap.
The band wants to doa sound check before theconcert.
I'lljust have a quick check to see if the letter's arrived.
Police are keeping a close check on the house.
Leaving some fields fallow provided a naturalcheck an insect populations.
Always check that the electricity is switched off before you start.
Check the en: gineoil level regularly.
We had better check that allthe doors are locked.
Tll need to check these figures against last year's.
Check the roof for loose slates.
He was Justchecking to see if 110as tn my room.
My boss is drawing up a checklist of my duties.
We ran through the checklist of points to consider when buying acomputer.
Hehates waiting at the checkout.
The army has set up checkpoints on all the major roads in the area.
We were stopped at the checkpoint, through aithe~ The police waved our car through the border checkpoint.
The company doctor does check-ups on Wednesdays.
His red-rimmed eyes and sunken cheeks betrayed his lack af sleep.
Her cheeks were wet with tears.
She proffered her cheek to kiss.
Hefelt his cheeks burning with shame.
She gave him a sharp slap ‘across his cheek.
She laid her cheek against ‘his.
She hada healthy bloom in her cheeks.
He kissed hismother on both cheeks and got on the train.
The colour Jlooded to his cheeks when he realized he was being watched.
She gave hima peck on the cheek and said goodbye.
He's got a cheek, making you walt outside his offce.
The hollows beneath his cheekbones showed his stress.
The skin streiched taut over his cheek bones.
Ing The players were greeted by rousing cheers.
They gave a big cheer when I finally arrived.
Shegota loud cheer when she inished speakin.
He accepted the prize amid cheers to~s She went of the stage to loud cheers.
Jfor democracy ~ from There were loud cheers from the crowd.
Toudly, wildly The crouwd cheered loudly as the ‘goalkeeper madea brilliant save.
Thefanscheered for their team.
Talking to Jane cheered me upa lot.
I'm amazed that she keeps so cheerJul.
We tried to keep him cheerful.
The doctor is on her way,* said Mrs Morris, sounding falsely cheerful.
Cut the cheese intocubes.
Sprinkle the cheese over the beans.
Sprinkle the potatoes with grated cheese and grill for a few minutes.
He took a job asa sous chef ina London hotel.
Many workers are regulariy exposed to dangerous chemicals.
The personal chemistry between the two stars of the film is obvious.
He drew a large cheque on his company’s account.
Cheques should be made Ppayable to Toyland plc.
She deposited the cheque in her husband’s account.
I'llcash a traveller’s cheque at the bank.
He was sacked for passing bad cheques.
The cheque will bounce if your salary doesn't reach your account today.
Chegues must be supported by a cheque guarantee card.
She wears loase clothes to hide her flat chest.
Clutching his chest in agony.
You've got to have courage, " he said, thumping his ches.
Hischest puffed out with indignation at the suggestion.
His chest swelled with pride as he accepted the award.
She ran until her chest ached.
In thelyour~ Shewas hitin the chest by two of the bullets.
Hesuffered burns to the chest and neck.
She clutched her ‘baby tightly to her chest.
She was chewing at her lower lip.
The baby chewedona rusk.
Battery chickens ‘have miserable lives.
My fother died while Iwas still asmall child.
We've got three teenage children.
She works in a centre for delinguent children.
He's always been a problem child.
The children were quite unruly and ran around the house as if they owned it.
Teaching is porticularly difficult when a class contains bath slow and bright children.
It was a bit lonely being an anly child.
There are a lot of street children in the poorer parts of thecity.
She didn't have her first child until she was nearly orty.
We had trauble concelying our first child.
They are expecting a child in June.
He had oldJfashioned ideas on how to bring up children.
You can’t spoila child bygiving itall the offection it wants.
Their firstchild was born with a rare heart condition.
His wifedied in childbirth in1928.
From carliest childhood she'd ‘hadaloveof dancing.
His health remained poor into later childhood.
She hada very happy child- ‘hood.
He spent mast of his childhaad in Egspt.
Her second son didn't survive childhaod.
He became diabetic during childhood.
She still retained many friends from childhood.
In~ She died in childhood.
He travelled a lot throughout hischildhood.
I'll add some hot water to the milk totakethechill off it (= tomake it slightly warmer).
With the chill factor; it's nearly minus forty here.
Her words struck achillin his heart.
The news senta chill dewn her spine.
Special pageat ILLNESS chilled adj © VERBS be, feel I suddenly felt chilled and had to go in daars.
The wine is best served chilled.
Special pageat FOOD chilly adj.
She was beginning to feel chilly.
We werestarting to geta bit chilly.
It turned chilly in theafternoan.
The air was black from smoking chimneys.
This chimney doesn't drawvery well.
She tilted her chin at him defiantly.
He stroked his chin thaughtfully.
She sat with her elbowson the table, resting her chin on her cupped hands.
His chin rose in a proud gesture.
Fasten the chinstrapor the helmet will fall off.
He put his hand under her chin and lifted her face to his.
The juice dribbled down his chin.
He had bitsof food on his chin.
Shecaught him with a hard blow on the chin.
She got out the best china for the visitors.
Thiscomputer uses the DX chip.
Advances in chip technology have 'made it possible to pack even more circuits on a chip.
Special page at COMPUTER chip ver» Dv.
She fell and chipped her tooth quite badly.
He was chipping away at the stone.
Wechipped the paint off the wood.
He broke off few squares of chocolate.
She broke a bar of dark chocolate into Jour pleces.
Stir until the chocolate has melted.
She Jaced the stark choice of backing the new scheme or losing her job.
Doctors have to make moral Choices every day of their lives.
First prize will bea meal for two at a restaurant of your choice.
Students have a free choice from a range of subjects.
You can have firstchoice of all the rooms.
Inow had aclear choice: either I accept their terms or I leave.
Everyone in a democracy has the right toexercise choice.
He had no choice about that.
She has a choice between three different universities.
The way he behaved meant that we had no choice in the matter: leave sb with littiefno choice Your decision leaves me with no choice but to resign.
We affer a choice of ten dif: Jerent holiday destinations.
The shop hasa very limited choice of ties.
Bill is the obvious choice for captain of the team.
Our first choice for a ‘holiday is the north of Scotland.
Mary Is a popular choice as chair of the com- ‘mittee.
She sings in the church choir.
Choir practice is on Wednesday evenings.
The fumesfrom the burning tyres made her choke.
My son nearly choked on one of those sweets, PHRASES choke (sb) to death He choked to death when afish bone gotstuck in his throat.
He has high cholesterol.
Eating garlic can significantly reduce cholesterol in the blood.
He chose his words carefully.
They can choose freely from a wide range of courses.
You are free tochoose whichever courses you want to take.
Shehad to choose between giving up her Job or hiring a nanny.
There are several different ‘maodels to choose from.
You have to take any job you can get—you can't pick and choose.
Add finely chopped parsiey.
Roughly chop the cabbage.
There are concerns over how quickly the Jorests are being chopped down.
He chopped off the ‘small branches before cutting down the tre.
Chop the meat into small cubes.
The furniture had been chopped to pleces.
There is a growing chorts of protest against the policy.
Many teachers have joined the chorus of voices that disapprove of the new tests.
His suggestions were met with a chorus of jeers.
Hello,” they shouted in chorus.
She s singing in the chorus.
We all got together at thechristening.
Victorian ‘muscular Christianity' was all about achieving self-control through strict mental and physical discipline.
Christmas is coming and thefood shopsarefull.
There are lots of parties at Christmas.
For Christmas he gave her a silk biouse.
The library isclosed over Christmas.
Happy/Merry Christmasl, wish sb a happy/merry Christmas.
The anthology is broadly chronological.
She gave a little chuckle.
We had a chuckle about it afterwards.
She was still chuckling about the story the next day.
She chuckled softly to herself as she remembered his astonished look.
The train chugged steadlly along the West Highland Line.
In, out, past, etc.
The boat chugged slotoly down theriver.
This one project has taken a substantial chunk of our budget.
He cut the food up into bitesize chunks.
The listening texts consist of short, bitessized chunks which are accessible to beginners.
In althe~ I bought the cheese in one big chunk.
The church is dedicated to St Paul.
There's an interesting organ in the village church.
Come to our place for lunch after church.
Parsons wasn't at church this Sunday.
The early Church believed miracles were Proofof whoJesus was.
Into He went into the Church(= became a priest) when he was 23.
He left the Church after a loss of faith.
He loves all the high church traditions incense and processions and vestments.
The rubbish goes down the chute intoa large bin.
The cider was very strong and went straightto our heads.
Ill have a glass of dry cider please.
He paused and drew on his cigar.
Her thin cigar burned quite quickly.
His cigar glowed in the darkened room.
They left the men to their portand cigars.
She slipped outside Jor an ilicit cigarette.
She smokes a packet of cigareties adag.
He pulled on his cigarette and waited for the train.
Please extinguishall cigarettes notw.
She rolls her own cigarettes.
The old man flicked his cigarette onto the roadside.
Posters advertising cigarettes have to carry ‘government health warnings.
Thecigarette burned slotwly in theashtray.
The cigarettes glowed in the dark.
The cinema was packed every night for “Shrek’.
Shestarted making films in the last years of silent cinema.
The stones form a complete circle.
The water rippled in widening clrcles round the fountaln.
He turned the car ina tizhtcircle.
If you follow the road signs you will ‘simply find yourself going round ina circle.
In althe ~ Thhe children stood in a circle.
The planets move in circles round thesun.
She has a wide circle of acquaintances.
He's Joined the inner circles of the court early in his career.
She moves in the highestsocialcircles.
My brother and I move in completely different circles (- we have very different friends).
In althe ~ Talk of religion was forbidden in the family circle.
Our seats are in the front row of the dresscircle.
The helicopter was circling slowly, very low.
Several airliners were circling above the airport.
The vultures were alreads circling ‘around thedead animal.
She circled her birthday in red on thecalendar.
The lights were nat working because of a short circuit.
Talent scouls spotted him playing on the amateur circuit.
From a front view the small birds can look atmostcircular.
He had round unblinking eyes and a perfectly circular head.
The crater was two miles across and roughly circular.
Air can circulatefreely through the tunnels.
The heart circulates blood around the body.
Blood circulates through the arteries andveins.
There's a story circulating around the office that you are about to leave the company.
The document will be circulated to all members.
I've got poor circulation.
Restricted circulation of the report will reduce the risk of leaks outside the ministry.
The new banknotes will go into general circulation next year.
Copiesof the magazine were withdraun from circulation.
The newspaper ‘hasa dailycirculation of 20 000.
The scheme might work better with ‘more favourable circumstances.
He died in tragic circumstonces.
In ‘normalcircumstances Iwould letyou use mycar buttoday I need .
Only if the circumstances are exceptional will we accept late applications.
She died in_rather Suspicious circumstances.
His sentence was reduced because of the extenuating circumstances.
Sth Ifelt that circumstances were conspiring against me.
The amount paid will vary according to circumstances.
Due {0 unforescen circumstances, we have had to reschedule the concert.
She died in suspicious circumstances.
In the circumstances, you'd better ring the police.
The bank will investigate lhe circumstances surrounding the rabbery.
The survivers ate planss and insects through force of circumstance.
The delays were due to circumstances beyond our control.
Under no circumstances should you leave the door unlocked.
He was simplya victim of circumstance.
He wes a writer living in straitened circumstances.
This is similar to the example cited above.
The most commonly cited reasons for stopping the treatment were lack of eficacy and side effects.
Hecited thefall in unemployment as one of the ‘government's successes.
This terrible crime has shocked all law-abiding citizens.
She is a prominent citizen of the town.
If's not clear how the new law will affect the ordinary citizen.
The king was visiting France as a privatecitizen.
He has German citizenship.
They were granted full French citizenship.
Ten years later, she chose to take Australian citizenship.
He was stripped of his citizenship when he criticized the government.
You will have to renunce citizenship of this country if you appiyfor citizenship of another.
Rome is one of the great cities of the world.
Her native city is Tokyo.
Bonn is Oxford's wincity.
The city grew rapidly in the nineteenth centurs.
Parking is difficultin thecity centre.
In althe ~ We live in a big city.
There'sa park just outside thecity.
The teachers were allquitecluil tome.
We demand an end to the killing of innocent civilians.
Art and music are among the ‘great products of human civilization.
He returned fully clad.
Shewent home and returned moresuitablyclad.
The company had made false claims about ts products.
They accepted ker claim that she had been ilitreated.
Claims of a cover-up were dismissed.
Thiey were able (o produce witnesses tosuppart their claim.
Claims of corruption within the police force were denied.
The police are investigating fraudulent claims for fire damage.
She brought a claim for damages against the company.
His claim for compensation was upheld in court.
We will need extra funds to meetall the insurance claims.
The claim fatled because the company had not been misled.
She had a prior claim on hisaffections.
Hehas a good claim to the land.
Four men laid claim to leadership of the country.
You will have to prove your claim to the property in a court of law.
His children have a claim on his estate.
She renounced her claim to the property.
The company had folsely claimed that its products were biodegradable.
He tried toclaim that e had acted in self defence.
You might be entitled to claim compensation if you are inJured at work.
She could barely make herself ‘heard above the clamour of the rain.
The clamour Jfor her resignation grew louder.
Clamp the pieces ‘af wood together while the glue ets.
She clamped her arms around him.
He clamped his hand firmly onto Jack's ‘shoulder over A large hand clamped over her mouth.
Thedog’s jaws wereclamped to his leg.
He iad large cigar clamped between is teeth.
His mouth clamped shut.
The door opened with a clank.
The audience clapped enthusiastically.
Headings ond subheadings further clarify the structure of thearticle.
With painfulclarity she remembered the day he had died.
For the sake of clority shewent back over the key points.
The leaders are preparing for a headonclashat the summit.
Several people were injured in violent clashes with the police.
Clashes between the rebels and government forces have broken out in the north.
He has clashed repeatedly with the team coach over training schedules.
They often clash violently with rival gangs.
She clasped her bag tightly as she walked through the crowd.
He clasped my hand warmly in welcome.
Fe's taking classes in pottery.
In (althe)~ We'll start the exercise in class and you can finish It for homework.
In She's going to evening classes in Italian.
She came top of the class inmaths.
Membership of gardening clubs is drawn from all social classes.
She's got real class.
The musical entertainment addeda touch of class tothe occasion.
The rooms arecf thestandard expected from a hotel ina higher classification.
The wheels of the cart madea terrible clatter on the cobblestones.
With a~ She dropped her fork with a clatter.
There wes a clatter of hoovesand a party of riders drew up.
The mug clattered against her teeth.
Something heavy came clattering down the stairs.
His hoots clattered on the stairs.
The penalty clouse specifies that late delivery will be fined.
The contract contains a confidentiality clause.
We added an opt-out clause to the agreement.
There is some ambiguity in this clause.
Jor the health of its employees.
The completed action is in the main clause.
Ihate lifts—they give me clausirophobia.
Crowds make me claustrophobic.
The at- ‘mosphere was somewhat claustrophobic.
The tiger dug its dlaws into his leg.
The lion growled and showed its claws.
The cat held a bird in itsclaws.
She moulded the clay info the shape of a head.
This product cleans baths veryeffectively.
He gently cleaned the wound and dressed It.
Clean the glass with asoftcloth.
Your shoes need cleaning! clean adj.
The room smelled clean andfresh.
The bathroom doesn't stay clean for lon.
She wiped all the surJfaces clean.
Please leave the kitchen clean.
You're supposed to keep your room clean.
The whole house was spotlessly clean.
Tve just got 1o wipe the tabl.
Is your room clean and tidy ‘now?lovely and clean The water was lovely and clean.
His mother gave him a lectureabout personal cleanliness.
The bathroom was ina good state of cleanliness.
The site must be completely cleared and made safe for children.
Ske hastily cleared a space for him to sit down.
T'hey cleared the mud from the steps.
We cleored the path of leaves.
Clear those papers off the desk.
His foce suddenly cleared as understonding dawned.
Correct breathing helps to clear the 'mind and reduce tension.
The three defendants were formally cleared by the judge.
You've got to make your intentions crystal clear to them.
Jt wasn'tentirely clear whether she wanted us to help.
It was clear to us that there was a problem.
She was quite clear about her reasons for leaving.
The photograph wasn'tvery clear.
Make sure you keep all gutters and drainpipes clear of leaves.
The roads are reasonably clear of snow.
You'll need to get security clearance for this job.
The pilot was granted clearance to land.
We need to increase the vehicle's ground clearance.
Make sure you allow enough clearance on each side.
Al ways give cyclists plenty of clearance.
There wasn't enough clearance between the bus and the top of the bridge.
His jouw was tightly clenched.
Involuntarily Her handsclenched involuntarily.
She sat with hands clenched together in her lap.
He had a pipe clenched between his teeth.
He feld the postof Clerk to the Council.
I'm not very clever at maths.
Try to avoid using clichés in your writing.
The answerphone gave a sharpclick.
Heclosed his briefcase witha click.
The company needs to focus on its biggest clients.
She's so busy that she's ot taking on any new clients.
The restaurant has a large regular clientele.
The boutique caters for a rather select clientele.
It takes timeto build up a clientele.
The cliffs fall away 1o the north.
Rugged sandstone cliffs rose up from the beach.
Steep cliffs towered above thertver.
Te hotel was perched high on a cliff overlooking the sea.
Thecity hasa warm climate.
Little grows in such adry climate.
His ideas on equality areviewed as utopian in the current political climate.
Gome to, reach The crisis reached its climaxn the 1970s.
Thestory gradually builds up to a powerful climax.
The affair wos brought to a climax when the chatrman resigned.
Yesterday marked the climax of the celebrations.
The climax came at the end of the second actof theplay.
The hero dies at theclimaxof theopera.
She found it hard to achievea/reach climasx.
On aithe ~ I broke my ankle on a climb last week.
They began the long climb up the hill.
Don't climb too high.
He climbed slowly up the ladder: © PHRASES climb to the top Weclimbed right to thetopof the mountain.
Ort) He goes climbing in Scotland every summer.
The path began toclimb quite steeply.
The road gradually climbs up from the village.
The plane took off and climbed to 20 000 feet.
Prices have climbed sharply in recent months.
The temperature had climbed above 90 degrees.
Unemployment has climbed from tuo million to threemillion.
Onto She clung ono my arm.
He clung tightly f0the raft to keep himself ofloat.
The ground mistclung closely to the ‘hedgerows.
He still clings stubbornly to his socialist ideas.
She was desperately clinging on to life.
The surgery holdsa babyclinic every Wednesday afternoon.
Sheis being treated at a special diabetic ctinic.
He was treated at the hospital’s eye clinic.
She works in a birth control clinic.
He looked at the body with analmost clinical detachment.
She put a clip in her ‘hair.
He put his bicycle clips on and set off.
Paper clips held the picture in Pplace.
In afthe ~ You will see in this clip how well she acts.
She threw a heavy woollen cloak over her shoulders.
I've sel my olarm clock for six tomorrow.
He forgot to put his clock forward and turned up an hour late.
Pressing the "Yes"or ‘No’response button stops the clock.
Tre clock Struck the hour.
Icould hear a clock ticking somewhere in the house.
This clock doesn't keep time.
The clocks g0 back (= for 3 return to standard time)/forward (= for summer time) tonight.
The clock on the ‘mantelpiece said twelve o'clock.
My alarm clock didn’tgooff this morning.
It's ten o'clock by the kitchen clock.
The chairperson brought themeeting toc close.
The decadedrew toaclosewith the threat of war hanging over Europe.
At the close of Irading, he 'had lost thousands of pounds on the stock market.
He closed the door firmly.
That factory's been closed down now.
Themuseum has been temporarily closed to the public.
Getclose to the microphone.
The tuo sisters seemed very close.
After the death of their parents the two children grew very close.
Hewasquiteclose to hisolder brother closed adj.
The library will remain closed untilnextweek.
Her mouth was tightly closed.
Makesure the lid is completely closed.
The valvecan ‘beadjusted from fully open to ully closed.
Hereyes were half closed.
The building is closed for repairs.
Twentyfive miles of beaches were officially closed to the public.
The slide gave closeup detallof petal formation.
The wound was photographed in extreme close-up.
The accident caused the complete closure of the road.
Several schools face eventual closure.
Imposing higher taxes would force the closure of many bookshops.
The mine has been saved from closure.
Wipe the table witha damp cloth.
You czn put on znd take off any sort of clothing.
You czn also: pull on pull up slip on boots jeans a dressing gown gloves Knickers ajacket a jacket pants a pair of sth a pair of sth askirt a robe sacks sacks shoes a sweater trousers tights trousers I'll just slip into something more comfortabie.
She pulled on a pair of faded jeans and a sweoter.
It was warm and she was lightly clothed.
Her partially clothed body was found in woods nearby.
He wore his best clothes to the interview.
I'm going to take a set of clean clothes with me.
She didn't recognize him in his sloppy everyday clothes.
Workers at the fuctory wear protectiveclothing.
Rain clouds were looming on the horizon.
He removed is glasses and rubbed the bridge of his nose.
With a dramatic gesture she pulled off her mask.
His fingers fumbled to do up the small buttons on his shirt.
Tom buttoned his overcoat up to his neck and raised his collar gathering in the west.
The clouds broke little, and the sun came out.
Sometimes the drinking water becomes rather clouds.
She could see the sun through the clouds.
England and Wales will start clouds.
Later it will become cloudy with rain in places.
The beer looked cloudy.
The warm water is made cloudy by adding some k.
The companies used thelr clout (o influence the policy.
She plays at the local tennis club.
So ar, the police havervt got any clues astothe motive for the crime.
Diet may hold the clue to the causes of migraine.
The letter yielded no clues.
The burglar Ieft no clues.
This research might provide an important clue about how cancer develops.
These plants quickly form dense clumps.
The church stood in a small cluster of farmers' cottages.
The group clustered together closely.
The children clustered ‘around their teacher.
She fell into the clutches of the rebel forces.
In sb's ~ They had him in their clutches.
Put it into first gear and let the clutch out slowly.
Keep in & state between full engagement and disengage- ‘ment) Thedriver at the traffic lights wasriding hisclutch.
He felt himself slipping and clutched at @ branch.
She clulched her ‘handbagtightly inone hand.
She clutched the letter to her chest.
The garage is in such a clutter that we can’tfindanything.
They are planning to tour the United States Bycoach.
This is the old coach road.
Red-hot coals glowed in the fireplace.
The centreright ‘parties have formed a coalition.
The two parties governed in coalition Jfor four years.
Socialists and Communists ~of a broad coalition of democratic and republican groups ~with They formed a coalition with the Greens.
The pathhugs the coast all the way to Tenby.
The coast stretched for into the distarce.
They sailed round the coast to Falmouth.
Wespenta day at the coast.
Theroad follows the Pacific caastline.
Thecoastline stretches for miles.
They sailed along the rugged coastline.
The coat was butioned up wrong.
The room needs a fresh coatof paint.
Make sure the base coat has tharoughly dried before applying the top coat.
The fabrichas been specially coated to improve its water resistance.
Coat the fish in the sauce.
The furniture was thickly coated with dust.
The fruit is cavered in a thick coating of milk chacalate.
Apply athin coating of glue t the surface.
He could coax tears and laughter from his audience.
Into He gently coaxed life back into my frozen t0es.
She never failed to coax good results out of her pupils.
The market traders cried out like barnyard cocks.
Thecock crowed at daun.
The show wasa heady cacktailof jazz, dance and political satire.
He made real cack-upof it.
There's been a bit of a cock-up over the travel arrangements.
She broke open the coconut and drank its sweetmilk.
The code was difficult tocrack.
All the messages were in code.
The company has drawn up a new disciplinary code.
He was thrown out for infringing the club's strict dresscode.
The profession has a strict code of practic.
Modern farming methods coexist with more traditional practices.
She drinks very milky coffee with lotsof sugar.
He brought in two mugs of steaming coffee.
The others will be back soon—Tl go and make some fresh coffee.
How do you take your coffee?” “Milk, no sugar, thanks.
He took a sin of his coffee.
Let's 20 for a coffee when you've finished sour essay.
Ill make some coffee for breakfast.
An inuiting smell of coffee wafted into the room.
Tea and coffee- making facilities are available in the Kitchen.
The coffin was lowered into the grave.
Your essay lacks internal coherence.
They have struggled to create co- ‘herence within the group.
There's a strong sense of coherence in the school curriculum.
You're not being very coherent.
She wore her hair in aneatcoil.
He cotled the rope up tightlyand putit awas.
The snake coiled itself around a branch.
Into Her halr was neatlycolled into @ bun.
They tossed acoin tosee who should gofirst.
Her visit coincided exactly with visi by the American president.
Our views on this issue coinclde closely with yours.
It was pure coincidence that they were both in Paris on the same day.
They met through a series of strange coincidences.
Remarkable coinct dences do happen in real life.
By coincidence, we both went to the same school.
By an unfortunate colncidence, thetr house was ‘burgled on the day he lost his job.
These parallels cannot be merely coincidental.
I'll have a Coke, please.
The house has double glazing to heep out the cold.
My hands were bluewith cold.
He stood out n the cold and walted.
She won her match despite sufJfering from a heavy cold.
Jim stayed at home because he was nursing a cold.
He took cold, developed pneumonia, and that was the end of him.
Special pageat [LLNESS cold adj.
As evening fell it got very cold.
The room grew cold.
In January it turned very cold.
Tlie rain over- ‘night had made the water cold.
Use ice to keep the drinks cold.
I's bitterly cold outside.
There was a freezing cold wind.
Your dinner’s geiting cold.
I'm afroid the coffee’s gone cold.
Bake in the oven for twenty minuies.
Icy The icy coldness of the water revived her.
There wasa marked coldness in her voice.
We have collaborated closely with the universityon this project.
In~with Rock musicians are working ir collaboration with an orchestra tocreate a new opera.
Shewas on theverge of nervous collapse.
He was ina state of mental and physical collapse.
The war has led (o the collapse of agriculture in the area.
Into Several buildings have collapsed into the sea.
The man collapsed against the wall and slid down it.
She collapsed suddenly from a heart attack.
He collapsed with shock.
In Novernber the strike finally collapsed.
The scheme collapsed in the foce of determined opposition.
His tie was knotted below his open collar.
His collar was undone.
The vicor hod hisdog collar on.
She turned up her coat collar for extra wormth.
The museum boasts a superb collection of medieval weapons.
He ‘buile up his collection over a period of ten years.
She made a collection of Roman coins and medals.
She needed only one mare stamp to complete her collection.
Historians frequently ask to consult the collection.
She had the task of cataloguing the library and organizing the collection of rare manuscrips.
The collection contains some 500 items.
The collection covers all phases of Picasso's career.
Themuseum's collection is growing all the time.
The collection Is to go on public disPplay for the first time next month.
The council offers free collection of waste.
Your car is awaiting collection at our garage.
They will arrange collection of the chairs.
We willhave a collection for chartty at the end of the cancert.
Acollection will be taken at theend of the service.
This vase is quite rare and isalmosta collector's item.
Effurther education, military, music, police, secretarial, teacher training, technical, theological, vetarinary, atc.
She's at college in Swindon.
In~ Not all the lecturers are i coilege at any one time.
Two trains collided heed-on.
His car nearly collided witha bus.
Involved In, have I had a near collision withalorry.
The collision occurred near the hospital.
She was injured in a collision.
Thecar was in collision witha lorrs.
An iceberg wason a collision course with the ship.
Settlers established a new colony in theearly 18th century.
Some of the insects will leave to forma newcolony.
The birds nest in huge colonies.
Dark colowrs suit you best.
The curtains went a strange orange colour when we washed them.
The garden is ariot of colour in spring.
The chameleon changes colour to match its surroundings.
The silk cushions addcolour toanotherwise dull room.
This colour runs, so wash the shirt separately.
We 'have tochoose a colour scheme for thedining room.
The flowers are pale blue in colour.
The book is lavishly il lustrated in full calour, in a~ The scarf is available in six different colours.
You could tell she was excited by the heightened colour in her cheeks.
The pages of the book have gone yellow.
I've dyed the curtains green.
She was cressed all in pink.
They chose deep purple for the curtains fight biue eyes G pale yelow blouse ~ suits sb The bricks are a dull red.
The woter was a briliant blue.
The room was decorated in rich browns and oranges.
His eyes were a vivid green.
You have a bit more colour in 3interesting or exciting details your cheeks now.
His asides lent colaur: colourtothestar.
Colour flooded her © PHRASES full of colour cheeks.
The colour rose in his face.
The colaur drained from her facewhenshe sawhim.
Gradually the colour returned to his cheeks.
She ware a richly caloured silkdress.
Her daughter has very fair colouring.
The roof is supported by four huge columns.
Inches So many column inches are devated tofilm stars.
She saw his name in an obituary column.
Into He sank into a coma after suffering a brain haemorrhage.
In althe~ He hos been in a coma since hiscar accident three monthsago.
She gave her hair a comb.
In, engagein The troops were locked in hand-to-hand combat.
He was Killed in combat.
The soldiersare incombat with rebel forces.
Sheargued that theonlyway to combat inflation effectively was to keep interest rates high.
The orchestra played with c winning combination of gusto and precision.
The materials can be used singly or in combination.
Hepatitis D exists only in combination with the hepatitis B virus.
She successfully cambines her career with family lfe.
Combine the flour with the water to makea stiff paste.
He made one of the ‘most remarkable comebacks in modern politics.
The player is on the comeDback trail after a serious knee injury.
He started out as a stand-up comedian in Liverpool.
The show contains some wanderful slapstick comedy.
They live in modest comfort.
The ‘hotel offers a high standard of comfort.
The sound of gunfire was too close for comfort.
They sought comfort in each other.
We 100k great comfort from the foct that at least some of our savings were safe.
Chocolate is a great comfort.
She found comfort in music.
The children have been a great comfort tome through allof this.
The idea that he was not alone comjorted ‘him greatly.
Jnow that most people in the class knew even less than he.
The victi's widow was today being comforted by femily and friends.
The bed felt comfortable.
We must think how we can make the room more comfortable for you.
The hotel wascomfortable enough.
This bed is lumpy—I Just can't seem fo get comjortable.
They didn't feel comfortable about her trovelling alone.
Idon't feel comfortable with him.
She found kis voice strangely comforting.
Many of the scenes in the book are richly comic.
He is a fointly comical figure who Jears beingmade fun of.
At her command all work stopped.
She was in sole command of one million pounds.
He had commardlof 3 0005oldiers.
She has lost command of her senses.
She is second in command.
He was put in command of the navy.
The division was under the command of General George.
The vast knowledge of the country he hos at his command will be invaluable in the job.
Shehasan excellent command of French.
Allied General Eisenhower was Supreme Allied Commander in Western Europe.
He was commended for his brave actions, to She said she would commend the proposal to the Board.
His book was ‘highly commended.
The proposed site hos much to commend .
The government's action here is highIycommendable.
What she said was (@) foir comment.
The attack s a sad comment on the public's understanding of mentallness.
This idec deserves more than passing comment.
Her novels were avehicle for shrewd social comment.
If you have any comments, please send them (o the above address.
She ‘made a cryptic comment about how the fitm mirrored her life.
The school has invited comments from parents about the new curriculum.
We have “received many helpful comments from fellowsufferers.
She accepted his diagnosis without comment.
The minister was unavailable for comment last night.
When asked about the rumours, the chairman replied, ‘no comment.
Hisvisits were the source of much: comment.
The minister refused to comment on the affair.
People were commenting about her gifts and abitities.
He commented favourably on the proposals.
She commented tome that she liked it.
She kept up @ running commentary on the festivities.
Iwlllgive a live commentaryon the election results.
The novel provides a powerful social commentary on post-war Germany.
Political commentatorsarepredicting that the minister will have to resign.
The marketplace was where commerce was traditionally carriedon.
Germany and Italy ~with the development of commerce with Asia © PHRASES a chamber of commerce, the world of commerce She has little experience of the worid of commerce.
She ended up doing commercials, which ironically revived her acting career.
The company has made commerclals for leading sportswear manufacturers.
The commercialfeatures a teenage girl with spots.
The film was so full of commercial breaks it was impossible to enjoy.
She’s in a commercial for cars.
The government has set up a joint commission to consider the problem.
That bank charges a high commission for cashing traveller’s cheques.
Sheearned £2 000 in commission last month.
Most of the salespeople are on commission.
Theygeta 10% commission on every encyclopedia they sell.
The report was commissioned from scientistsin five countries.
He was appointed United Nations High Commissioner for refugees.
Learning to play the violin requires strong commitment.
The government has managed to gain the commitment of emplosers to the schemme.
Thegovernment avoided giving any commitments on pensions.
Heis trying to wriggle out of his various domesticcommitments.
The country was now irrevocably committed to war.
The prime minister is personally committed to this legislation.
She cared for Jem in her way but did not want to became emotionally committed.
Lord Stansfield will chair the committee.
Hewasappainted (o theadvisary committee last manth.
She serves on severalcommittees.
The committee meets every ‘Thursday.
Coal is becoming a rare commodity.
Time is a very valuable com- ‘modity.
These prablems now seem fairly common.
This attitude is common to most young men in thearmed services.
Jane and I have nothing in comman (= share no interests, ideas, etc.
The two cultures have a lot in common (= have the same features, characteristics, etc.
They hold the property as ten.
Bri ain, in common with (= like) many other industrialized countries, has experienced major changes over the last 100 years.
She seems a bit common to me.
We found aurselves on common ground on the question of education.
Her situation sounded commonplace enough.
These ideas are commanplace among teenagers.
At least he had the comman sense to turn the water off before he left.
Comman sense should tell you that people will find out sooner or later.
He hasn't an ounce of common sense.
The dogs set upaterriblecommotion as we camenear the house.
Lots of furniture had been knocked over in the commotion.
Join He gave up his job in the city and joined acommune.
She lives in a commune.
By the age of two mast children have begun to communicate verbally.
We usually communicate by letter through We communicated through an interpreter: to She is unable to communicate her ideas to other peaple.
Good communication is important for business.
Communication between the twosides has broken down.
We are in regular communication with the kidnappers.
Weneed better communication with clients.
Letters are their only means of communication.
Paris has good rail communications with other major cities.
He received an official communication about the reorganization of the Ministry.
We went to Holy Communion in the cathedral.
Com- ‘munion was celebrated by the Reverend John Harris.
Most of the people present took Communion.
There were only half a dozen people at Communion.
In~with He lived in close communion with nature.
The announcement was made in a communiqué issued by the Defence Minister.
The president of the new democracy is actually a former Communist.
There is a strong senseof community in this town.
He commuted daily between London and Surrey.
She commutes from Peterborough to London everyday.
He was an entertaining travelling companion.
She had only her cot for companionship.
She had never had any closé companionship with another woman.
She's been working for the samecompany for 15years.
The company produces cotton goods.
During the recession many small compandes wentoutof business.
He has shares in several companies.
He's very good company.
If's nice to have a bit of company for a change.
I'll stay and keep you company.
He's nervous in thecompany of his colleagues.
He ‘glanced round the assembled company.
Keep (- tospend time with) John's mother was worried about the company he kept.
Those children don't know how to behave in ‘company.
That's not something to say in mixed company.
We're expecting company thisafternoon.
The two machines are comparable in size.
The earthquake was comparable with others in recentyears.
The city compares favourably with other parts of Bruzil.
These mountains donotcompare with (=are not nearly ashigh, impressive, etc.
With Few things compare with (= are as good as) the joyof cycling ona bright, sunny spring morning.
I've had some difficulties but they were nothing compared to yours (= they were not nearly as bad as yours).
If's difficult to ‘make a direct comparison—the two things are sodifferent.
Te similarity between the two invites comparison.
Our problems don’t bear comparison with those elsewhere.
With) Jane is still quite young, and Fiona seerns old by comparison.
Let's put them side by side for comparison.
Mwith The glasses are small ir.
Your sunglasses are in the glove compartment.
The case is divided into four separate compartments.
The railiway fanned out from Moscow to all points of thecompass.
Someone or something had had compassion on me.
He was filled with overwhelming love and compassion for his wife.
The old people are treated with great compassion.
The theory does notseem compatible with hisother ideas.
His eyes were strangely compelling.
There is no logically compelling argument to support their claims.
The advantages of the scheme more than compensate for the risks associated with it.
Pecple whose health has suffered will be compensated in full.
Texpect to be compensated financially.
The company will compensate you for the losses you have suffered.
If the government s proved negligent, compensation will be payable.
She recelved £7000as compensation for her injuries.
They will have to pay £5 000in compensation.
The money was small compensation for unfair dismissal.
Their products compete directly with ours.
The price must be right in order to compete internationally.
He welcomed the chance to compete ‘against professional athletes.
Animals in the wild have tocompete for food.
He regularly competes in road races.
We have to compete with several larger companies.
She shows a high level of technical competence.
He gradually developed the competence to deal with the more difficult cases.
I'm afraid the work is beyond his ‘competence.
This should be well within your ‘competence.
Students had questioned her competence as a teacher.
He displayed great competence for the job.
The commission has no Jormalcompetence in cultural matters.
The decisions come within the competence of the council.
He was not considered competent toteach seven-year olds.
In She is competent in five languages.
She won an international dancing competition.
We're going 10 have a competition to see who can swim the furthest.
Public transport is run in direct competition with the private sector.
They won the order against fierce international competition.
Weare in competition with ‘some very large companies.
In the face of ~ The gas companiesare having to lay offstafy in the face of stiff competitionfromoil.
There isa lotof competition between rival airlines.
We face strong competition from other countries.
Investment in research is needed 10 keep Britain competitive with countries like Japan.
The comparny has no serious competitors in ihis area.
She is one of the sport’s top competitors.
Ten competitors complacent adj.
Teachers are far from complacent about this problem.
This view seems alarmingly complacent.
It s vital that we do not get complacent about thisdisease.
She complained bitterly about the lack of help she received.
It was entirely my own idea, so I can hardly complain.
All the guests complained about the noise.
She complainedat the unfairnessof itall.
They Jfiled a complaint with the European Commission.
We have had some serious complaints from parents.
The tribunal heard complaints against the director.
ThewayIwas treated gave me no cause for complaint.
Nat being able to sleep at night is a very common complaint.
This wine s the perject complement to fish.
We've taken our full complement of irainees this year.
The flavours in the dish comple- ‘ment each other perfectls.
These wo aims are not al- ‘ways mutually complementary: at times they conflict.
Weprovidea service that is essentially complementary to that of the banks.
Has the form been correctly completed? ully The project complete adj.
The book survives complete anly in the second edition of 1533.
You've made my life complete.
The jab is almost complete.
The renovation of the theatre is now nearing completion.
The bridge is due for completion in May.
Payment will be made following successful completion of the job.
The floorboards were replaced prior to completion of the sale.
The book is near completion.
Develop- ‘ment of thesite has been delayed pending completion of the sewerage scheme.
The commitee will report ‘back 1o us on completion of the study.
Don't keep on at him about his handuriting or he'll geta complex.
She has a complex about her big ears.
This is ahighly complex matter.
Years of heavy drinking had given Alison a florid complexion.
What you have told us puts quite a different complexion on the situation.
The joke took on a rather serious complexion when the police became involved.
Only now did he understand the full complexity of the problen.
It is difficult to coney the sheer complexity of the situation.
These events will greatly complicate the situation.
The issue is complicated by thefuct that a vital dacument is missing complicated adj.
This is where the story geis com- ‘plicated.
The presence of an armed gang added a major complication.
We always try ta avaid any unnecessary complicatians.
Further complicationsarase when the newspapers published an interview with theprisaner’s family.
She developed complications twa weeks after the treatment.
Camplicatians develap if the drug is nat used praperly.
The treatment carries a high risk of complicatiors.
She did nat suspect him of complicity with: the authorities.
To listen to sameone Is the greatest campliment yau can pay.
Ina backhanded compliment she sald he looked very good far hisage.
Please don't misunderstand me—I meant it as a campliment.
She acknawledged their compliments with big smile.
Il take that as a compliment.
She's always fishing for campliments about her laaks.
He returned her compliment by saying how well she lagked.
She received several compliments on her speech.
Please give my campliments to your wife.
She made some highly camplimentary remarks about thelr school.
When requested ta leave, they refused ta camply.
Candidates must comply strictly with these instructions.
The researchers discavered a comman companent in all types of the organism.
Our softuware is becoming a standard companent f many computer systems.
Component failure was thecauseof theaccident.
The cammittee was composed entirely of specialists.
Banes are largely campased of calcium.
He was pale but perfectly composed.
In the exam, you ‘havetodoa composition.
She totalIy lost her composure and began shouting.
Nothing could ruffe his composure.
With~ She ansuwered with perfect composure.
At the right temperature, the chemicals will form a compoun.
Police are investigating a raid on a secure compound.
Shefailed to comprehend the seriousness of the situation.
Wechanged the wording of the text tomake it more comprehensible.
The instructions should be easily comprehensible to parents.
His French was barely comprehensible.
The systemn is perfectly comprehensible 1o most people.
She hos no comprehension of the seriousness of the situation.
There areexercises for checking comprehension.
Why he can't do it himself is beyond my comprehension.
He showed a total lack of comprehension.
We did a listening comprehension.
The listis foirly comprehensive.
After months of negotiations, they have reached an uneasy compromise.
I'm not making any more compromises.
They're still rying to work out an acceptable compromise.
It is best (0 1y 10 seek a compromise rather than a perfect solution.
After much dlscussion, she offered compromise.
He might be an ottractive compromise candidate {f both sides’ first choices are rejected.
It was a fair compromise between the two sides.
There could be no com- ‘promise with the nationalists.
Unions and management seem ready to compromiseon the level of the pay increase.
They debated whether to compromise with the opposition parties.
We are not prepared (0 compromise on safety standards.
There is an element of compulsion in thenew scheme for the unemployed.
Hefelt an inner compulsion to urite.
You're under no compulsion to take part.
Computers can be nelworked using modems and telephone lines.
The software allows you 1o interfuce your computer and an OCRreader.
The computer stores data in a buffer until the printer can acceptit.
The computersare alldown (=not functioning)at the moment.
Jorces affecting the aircraft in flight.
Such a large sorting operation can take up a lot of computer time.
The scheme wasalla big con.
He waited with barely concealed impatience.
She was unable toconceal her surprise.
He concealed the truth from her.
She readily concedes that there is much wori still to be done.
He reluctantly conceded that he was not fit enough (o play in the match.
He was not prepared to concede that he hadacted itlegalls.
The firm should concede a significant salary increase toits employees.
Is quite conceivable thatshe hasn't heard the news yet.
We had to draw up plansfor every conceivable emergencs.
The plan was brilliantly conceived.
The course is very broadly conceived (= it covers 2 wida range of topics).
It s difficult to conceive of a society without ‘money.
We conceive of ourselves as individuals.
She was unable to conceive a child naturally and was offered fertility treatment.
She was sitting at her desk concentrating hard.
He concentrated mainly on the fiying andspoke very little.
Kate sat up fully, her attention now totally concentrated.
The liquid is found in a highly concentrated form.
The immigrant community is strongly concentrated geographically.
In Most of the country’s industry is concentrated in the north.
Childbearing is concentrated within the firstdecade of married life.
The game requires great concentration.
Don's voice from outside broke my concentration.
In/of concentration One momentary lapse in concentration could prove fatal.
She has great ‘powers of concentration for a child her age.
The greatest concentrationof trafficis in thecity centre.
Increase, rise The concentration of nitrates in the drinking water has risen in recent years.
Mental handicap' should be replaced with the broader concept of “learning difficulties.
The wholeconceptof responsibility wasalien to him.
The concept of *adequate medical care' is 100 vague.
Ske finds it difficult to grasp abstract concepts.
He/farmulated the cancept of imaginary time.
Hls warkIs strikingly fresh in conceptian.
You have no conception of what her life s like.
Sex identity is fixed atconception.
He felt some concern for her safety.
The lack of firefighting equipment has coused concern.
In sb's ~ She forgot her own worries in her concern for him.
She expressed her deep concern about conditions at the factory.
Out of concern for her health, we suggested she take a week off work.
Increased use of drugsisof great concern to parents.
The president’s health s giving serlous cause for concern.
Stress at work is a matter of concern to staff and management.
How much we paid is nore of your concern.
Everyone who wasdirectly concerned in (= had some responsibility for) the incident has now resigned.
It really concerns me tht he doesn't eat properiy.
Shewas not unduly concerned by the prospect of managing on her own.
Doctors are concerned at the prospect of heart patients having to walt up to a year for surgery.
We are now deeply concerned for his safets.
Mathematics is concerned essentially with understanding abstract concepts.
Social anthropology is centrally concerned with the diversity of culture.
He will be giving hisfarewell concert as Music Directar of the Ulster Orchestra.
The orchestra performs its final concert of the season tomorrow.
The Queen attended a gala concert at the Royal Festival Hall.
The band is putting on its biggest concert of the year.
The pressure group has wan a number of cancessions on environmental policy.
The firm will be Jorced to make concessions to the union.
The company has just won a mining concession inthenorthaf the couniry.
It ll points ta the conclusian that nobody knew what was going on.
The meeting was brought to a hasty conclusion.
In conclusion, I would like to thank you all JSor your hard work.
They produced some Jfairly conclusive evidence.
The argument was far from conclusive.
The pothway is formed from large pebbles set in concrete.
United Kingdom s set in concree.
Before the concrete sets the surfacecan be given a final smoothing over.
With ~ He was carried off the field with slight concussion.
He was roundly condemned for his mistake.
Tre action has been widely condemned by human rights groups.
There's been no official condemnation of the bombing.
The United Nations issued a condemnation of there- ‘gime.
The violence has drawn firm condemnation from all themain political leaders.
Condernnation of this policy has come from all political parties.
Thecar s still in excellent condition.
Doctors say his condition is now stable.
There has been a seriousdeterioration in her mental condition.
Witout this treatment, her condition won't improve.
He is still in a critical condition in the local hospital.
You'rein nocondition to tackle the stais.
Ske was unable to give inJormed consent because of a mental condition.
He has a rare skin condition.
All three babies were born withan incurable heartcondition.
Conditions are very favourable for starting a business.
The experiment is conducted under strictly controlled conditions.
The working conditions in the factory are dreadful.
In, work in/under Ar enor- ‘mous number of people live in conditions of severe poverty.
As long as these weather conditions prevail, we are unable to rescue the climbers.
The samples are heated under experimental conditions.
The bar was licensed subject 0 thecondition that no children under 15 be admitted.
He denied being in breach of bail conditions.
Il agree to the scheme on one condition: my name doesn't get mentioned to the press.
Under the conditions of the agreement, all foreign troops will leave by May.
Work is basic (o the human condition (= thefactof beingalive).
We would like to take this opportunity to convey our heartfell condolences to the fomilies of the victims.
Please accept our sincere condolences.
Daylight is highly conducie to good plant growth.
The noise was hardly conducive to a good night's sleep.
The prisuner was released eariy for good conduct.
Our organization sets high standards of professional conduct.
It is tempting tothink of morality asa guide to human conduct.
The committee concluded that the senators had engaged in Improper conduct.
Efforts were made to regulate the conduct of crowds at football games.
The minister was called tocourt toexplain his conduct.
The violent conduct by the strikers was condemned.
The elders were responsible for the proper conduct of community life.
The enquiry must be independent.
The Franks wereoriginally aloose confederation of Germanic tribes.
The conference brought together historians working ina variety of fields.
The conference heard an appeal from a representative from one of the more deprived areas.
The conJerence agreed to adopt a set of compromise proposals.
The conJerence adopted a resolution on minority rights.
We met at an international conference.
He was in conference with (= in a meeting with) his lawyers all day.
Few reporters turned up to his press conference about low pay.
Management had a joint conference with the union.
She confessed to me that she had known his true identity for some time.
It's difficuit to believe it's an honest confession after all her lies.
He claims his confession was extracted under torture.
She made false confession during the trial which she later retracted.
The court excluded the confesston wrongly oblained by the police.
The police forced a confession outof him.
I'read your private emails.
The priest heard her confession and granted absolution.
The winning team was showered with confetti.
Confetti showered down on the newly-weds.
The company needs the full confidence of its investars.
ConAidenceis highemong the team's supporters.
This govern- ‘ment no longer enjoys the confidence of the public.
Weall ‘have complete confidence in this product.
She wished that she shared his confidence.
Higher profits should raise business confidence.
Instil 7% training s designed to give staff confidence in managing problems.
The company's record does not really inspire confidence.
Only if the chairperson resigns will we be able to restore the confidence of our members.
Only one bank scandal is needed to shake the conSidencein the financial markets.
The coptain was not lacking in confidence about his team's prospects.
In They have no confidencein the legal system.
There is a crisis of confidence in the university about its future role.
Zhe captain of the footballteam said he had every conjidence in his men.
This is a tremendous vote of confidence for the gov- ‘ernment.
The government losta parliamentary confidence vote.
She spoke in a tone of easy confidence.
All his false confidence had drained away.
She has very lttle confidencein her ounabilities.
Tcan explain,' he said, with a confidence he did notfeel.
Since she got the new Job, she's ‘been brimming with confidence.
As the weeks went by he grew in confidence.
During his illness he really lost his confidence.
He's really striking the ball well and has got hisconfidence back.
Winning the competition really boosted her confidence.
Failing his exams really dented his confidence.
My confidence went completely after my first major defeat.
Their confidence grew with each success.
Getting the certificatedoes a lot in terms of confidence bullding.
Sheanswered the question with confidence.
The Cabinet must enjoy the confidence of Parlioment.
She thought ‘shemight take Leo into her confidence.
She fold me in confidence—I couldn’t break that confidence, could I? PHRASES a breach of confidence Tvlling other people what I'd suid was a totol breach of confidence.
Enquiries will be dealt with in the strictest confidence.
The girls exchanged whispered confidences.
Mike for betraying a confidence.
She gradually grew more confident.
Going touniversity has mace her more confident.
Hecame out of the interview feeling quietly confident.
She sauntered onto the set, looking serenely confident.
You get young people who appear 1o be socially confident, but inside they area bundle of reuroses.
We are confident about the future.
I'm Jfully confident of winning the title.
The affair ‘must be kept confidential.
Information about prices is to betreated as confidential.
The findings are strictly confidential.
He breached confidentiality by releastng information on weapons tests.
The discussion confined largely to general principles.
Poverty and deprivation are by no means confined to the north of thecountry.
Let’s confine our attention to the problem of - legaldrugs.
The animalsare kept in close confinement.
He spent eleven yearsin solitary confinement.
She uanted 10 experi ence things outside the close confines of family lfe.
This latest tragedy merely confirms my view that the low must be tightened.
The plans were officially confirmed yesterday.
The police are sceking independent confirmation of certain details of the story.
She nodded in confirmation.
We need confirmation inwriting before we can send your order out.
His work brought him into conflict with more conventional scientists.
They hid their feelings to avoid conflict.
The United Nations are hoping to resolve the conflict quickly.
The conflictarose from different ambitions within the team.
Thousonds have been arrested in violent ethnic conflicts in the region.
They found themselves in conflict over the future of the firm.
His opinions conflicted withmine.
All companies are required to conform to these rules.
This equipment conforms fully with the latest safety regulations.
In ~ with The procedure is in strict conformity with standard_ international practices.
He s willing toconfront problems directly.
Jronted by the task of rewriting the entire book.
The demonstrotors found themselvesconfronted by a line of police, blocking the road.
Their demands could lead 1o a serious confrontation with management.
His actions brought him into congestion noun direct confrontation with the authorities.
She had a series of heated conrontations with her parents over homework.
Seeing the two of them together totally confused me.
You con easily confuse the two paintings.
Isometimes confuse Janewith her sister.
He was beginning to get rather confused.
He Left his audience thoroughly confused.
George paused, momentarily confused.
Hewas very confusedabout hisfeelings.
I'm confused by the whole thing.
Both teams were wearing the same colours, which made things corfusing.
The new signs wilk be very confusing for tourists.
This latest decision has only added to the general confusion.
The locatcouncit has been thrown into total confusion by her resignation.
Confusion reigned when the two managers gave conflicting instructions.
In (the)~ She stared at them both in utter confu sion.
In the confusion that followed, she managed toslip ‘away unnoticed.
There is widespread conJfusion about the government's transport policy.
The announcement caused a lot of confusion among the students.
Toavoid confusion, labeleach box clearly.
The roads to Bordeoux were heavity congested.
Thecitystreets were congested with vehicles.
Parking near the school causes severe traffic congestion.
T'must congratulate you on your excellent exam results.
The employees should be congratulated for the part they have played in the success.
She congratulated me warmly on my performance.
Please give your parents mycongratulations.
Pleaseaccept my warmest congratulations on your engogement.
The vicar stood up toaddressthe congregation.
Three hundred delegates attended the Liberal party congress.
The general secretary opened the congress on global warming.
The congress agreed to the taxcutting package.
We met again at the annual congress.
It was a year before the assoclation met again in congress.
Congress approved ‘most of the new powers.
Congress passeda serles of important measures.
Congress voted to delay adecision.
The Liberals in Congress felt the reforms did notgofor enough.
Whether the business will survive another tenyeors s pure conjecture.
There was a lot of conjecture os to theextent of her wealth.
Whether she will run for ¢ second term in office is open to conjecture.
Downstairs toilets were connected directly tothedrains.
We need to connect all the pipes up to the water tank.
Connect the machine & the power supply.
Acorridor connects his office with the main building.
Intimately Bad diet is closely connected with many common ilinesses.
The police were looking for evidence to connect him with the crime.
There is a close connection between family background and ccademicachievement.
His death had no connection with drugs.
Researchers have now established a connection between air pollution and asthma.
Shewonted to sever all her connections with the firm.
Iam writing in connection with your recent job application.
There are good connections between the resort and major cities.
He has connections (= he Knows important people who would be able to help him).
She used her connections to get the job.
Only the real connoisseur could tell the difference betieen these two wines.
The notion of abuse has wider connotations than the physical.
That word has strong sexual connotations.
The word carries connotations of romance.
Norman, Roman, Spanish, etc.
The army made many conquests in the east.
He continued to expard his kingdom by conquest.
He had no conscience abouttaking his brother'smoney.
After the feast she spenta week dieting to salve her conscience.
He wrestled with his conscience all night long.
Her conscience was froubling her a little.
My conscierce dictates that Iresign.
I'm sure she has something on her conscience.
It was on his conscience that he hadn't called her.
We cannot in all conscience refuse to help.
This question is ¢ matter of individual conscience.
She refused to listen to the voice of conscience.
He fell, and was dimly conscious of Tar standing over him.
All the time he was painfulIy conscious of how hard it was going to be to explain.
The company is extremely environmentolly conscious (= aware of environmental problems and how to deal with them).
She remained conscious throughout theoperation.
The patient is not yet fully conscious.
Iy, hardly Oneman was sodrunk asto be barely conscious.
Twas only half conscious.
She hit her head on a rock and lost consciousness.
The cold water brought me back to ull consciousness.
The words slowly entered her consciousness.
She sees racism as a form of false consciousness, where a society collectlvely believes untrue things about other races.
They have succeeded in raising consciousness on many fssues.
The idea firmly lodged itself in the public consclousness.
He injured himself to avoid conscription.
No clear consensus exists ‘over the next stage of the scheme.
They have aluways governed by consensus.
It is difficult to reach a consensus about electoral reform.
The general consensusof opinion is that a high-fat dietis bad for you.
Your silence implies tacit consent to these proposals.
Doctors must obtain the informed consent of all patients before glving any treatment.
No action can be taken without the prior consent af the ouner.
You must give written consent before the documents can be released.
The contract can only be broken by mutual consent.
Your property cannot be sold without your consent.
Kindly He has kindly consented to give us ‘some of his valuable time.
Her father would not consent to the marriage.
The practice had farreaching environmental consequences.
Hundreds of people lost their jobs as direct consequence of the merger.
The child was born deformed in consequence of an injury to its ‘mother.
This could have serious consequences for theeconoms.
Nonew building is permitted in conservation areas.
She takes a basically conseruative view of society.
Banks are notoriously conservative about their dealings with clients.
I'm seriously considering the possibility of emigrating.
You must take the size of the room into consideration.
On consideration, we have decided not to come.
Have some consideration for those withouta job.
She showed little consideration for the beginners.
He did it out of consideration for his daughter.
There are several important safety considerations thatmust be taken into account.
Their conversation consisted almost entirely of gossip.
He has shown remarkable consistency in his exam results.
Add milk to produce soft dropping consistency.
Knead the dough to the right consistency.
The mixture should have the consistency of thick cream.
Jiis attitude isn't absolutely consistent.
It is destrable that domestic and EU law should be mutually consistent.
These findings are consistent across all the studies, with The figures are fully consistent with last year's results.
He went to seek consolation in the local pub.
He drew little consolation from this fact.
When her ‘mother died, she found consolation in her religious beliefs.
Although we lost the game, we took some consolation from the fact that we playedwell.
The next match will probably affer them the consolation of winning.
There is some consolation for fans because the team still stands chance of winning the local championship.
The children werea great consolation to me at that time.
This news was of little consolation to us.
If i's any consolation to you, the weather here is also auful.
When she lost her job, her only consolation was that she had some savings in the bank.
The new building was rather conspicuous.
Thestain on her dress was horribly conspicuous.
Isuspected that hewasinvolved in the conspirocy.
This action was part of a conspiracy to deceive the public.
There is a conspiracyof silenceabout the killer (= nobody will say what they Kknow).
The force hopes to increase the number of its beat constables.
Special constables provide parttime assistance for the regular policeforce.
The level of unemployment remains fairly constant at around 10%.
Al variables except one must be held constant.
The temperature must be kept constant.
These figures were virtually constant across the 1991 and 2001 censuses.
The announcement created surprise and consternation.
The thought of meeting him filled me with consternation.
Mary greeted his resignation with consternation.
Shestared atme in consternation.
Thereis someconsternation among bussiness leaders.
The Tories are concentroting their campalgn in the key marginal constituencies.
He represents a constituency in the northof England.
These peaple are Labour's natural constituency.
Britain does not have a written constitution.
Prove, enact, promulgate, ratity The new constitution will be adopted nextear.
Parliament willvote to amend the constitution.
The president's actions violate the constitution.
Theconstitution was suspended and the army was placed in full control.
These principles are enshrined in the country's constitution.
The constitution stipulated that a general election must be held within 120days.
Under the constitution, an election must be called every five years.
These rights are established in the federal constitution.
The child had a weak constitution and was aluays il N noun constrained adj.
She felt tightly constrained by her family commtments.
Trie government has placed tight constraints on spending this year.
We have to work within severe constraints.
There are major financial constraints on allschools.
The drainage system needs careful construction.
Road and bridge construction is underway.
Construction of the new road has now been completed.
Major engineering challenges will be faced during construction.
We consulted quite widely before deciding what 10 do.
They felt they had ot been properly consulted.
We are consulting closely with our partnersand allies.
He was happy toactasa consultant to the company.
We brought in a management consultant ta sort out the mess.
They workas consultants to a software company.
She is now a hospital consultant.
There will be a period of public consultation before a decistonis reached.
The prime minister will hold a consultation with all the relevant groups.
The scheme was developed in close consultation with the local community.
They have taken this _decision without any consultation.
We need more consultation with tradeunions.
The UK is the biggest consumer of tropical harduoods after Japan.
Mass culture turns audiences inlo passiveconsumers, their participation limitecto the choice between buying and not buying.
Green consumers should be wary of manufacturers' claims that their products are environmentally friendly.
Consumer watchdogs have accused banks of ‘appalling arrogance’ in the way they treat customers.
We are living in a consumer society.
Government policy encouraged a consumer boom followed by a deep recession.
The country could face a consumer boycott of 1ts beef exports.
Annual consumption of wine has risen from Jive 1o eleven litres per head.
It is important that the recovery be export-led rather than led by domestic consumption.
Half the small crop was kept for home consumption.
Doctors say that children need to increase their consumption of fruit and vegetables.
The industry fuced a serious challenge in trying to stimulate consumption.
You need to reduce your alcohol consumption.
The documents were or the commitzee rather than for publicconsumption.
She is still in close contact with Sarah.
In his job, he comes into contact with many different people.
When Iarrive in New Yok, I'll getin contact with him.
In Maintaining contact after many years can be dificult.
There has been no contact betuween them for several years.
He hasa lot of good contacts in the music industry.
It takes time to build up contacts.
Imade a lotof useful business contacts at the conference.
The disease is transmitied throughphysical contact.
Do not let the glue come intocontact with water.
In~ For a brief moment their lips were in contact.
There should be no contact between the separate samples.
He can be contacted by phone on the telephone number given below.
Please do not ‘hesitate to contact me if you have any questions.
The new disease proved contagious.
Store food in durable containers with lids.
Tubes are theideal container for paint asair is excluded.
Keep the seeds in an airtight container.
The meal was believed to be contaminated with salmonella.
Chop- ‘ping boards can be a source of cross-contamination.
There is already a high level of environ- ‘mental contamination.
Aluays keep food covered to prevent contamination by fifes.
There is a danger of serious contamination from radioactive waste.
Wash everything thoroughly 1o avoid contamination with bacteria.
She was seriously contemplating warking abroad.
Thethought of war was too awfulto contemplate.
He spent many hours in deep contemplation.
She used only strictly contemporary documents to research the book.
His work s very contemporary.
She'd developed what she considered a healthy contempt for au thority.
He felt ‘nothing but contempt for them.
Politicians seem 10 be generally held in contempt by the police.
His remarks betray an utter con tempt for the truth (- are completely false).
He has a deep contempt for racists.
His treatment of his children is beneath contempt (=s0bad it is not even worth feeling contempt for).
She looked al him with barely disguised contempl.
She was held in contempt for refusing to testifs.
Her voice sounded almost contemptuous.
He was utterly conlemptuous of her efforts.
With She seemed quite content with the idec.
He gavea deeply contentedsigh.
Her main contention s that staff should get better training.
Support There is no evidence (o support her contention.
There isno contention betueen the tio groups.
Where to go on holiday is always a bone of contention in our family.
Abortion is a highly conlentious issue.
He gazed out 1o sea, witha Jfeeling of deep contentment.
They finally fourd contentment in living a simple life.
She ighed with contentment.
The contest was 100 onesided to be exciting.
This coniest is wide open: any of half a dozen teams could win it.
The other bidders for the contract complained that it had not been a fair contest.
The contestants are eliminated one by one until the last two compete in a head-to-heod contest.
We have three ‘major beauty contests a year.
Sporting contests are held inthearena.
In,enter, take partin A third candidate has entered the contest for the Republican nomination.
During the election contest newspapers are not allowed to publish public opinion polls.
Both sides are predicting victory in this close contest.
They won the doubles contest against the Williams sisters.
In the animal kingdom intruders usually lose contests over territories.
The New Zealanders are looking forward to future contests with South Africa.
The election was bitterly contested.
Deferce lawyers successfully contested the case.
You can't just look at it in terms of the immediate problem.
You've got to see it in @ wider context.
These actions only have meaning within_certain specific contexts.
Children need meaningful contexts for their work in science.
It is natural to find conflict in the work environment, in the family, or any other human coniext.
This speech needs to beset in the context of Britain in the 1960.
His decision can only be understood in context.
Her reply was quoted outof context and seemed to mean something quite different from what she had intended.
In(althe)~ Similar problems havearisen in other contexts.
You've got 1o look a these remarks within the context of the recent scandals.
Antarctic, Australian, African, etc.
Theevidence thatthe continents have drifted is overwhelming.
He travelled across continents in his quest for adventure.
Wolves are still found on the continent of Europe.
The years 2000-01 saw the continuation of the university's planned expansion.
His research could be seen as a natural continuation of the work done by Professor Lang.
After twetve or thirteen centuries of unbroken continuity the landscape was being changed out of all recognition.
More liaison betuween the old manager and the new one should ensure greater continvity.
Theauthor deliberately breaks the narrative continuity in order to confound the reader’s expectations.
There is often @ lack of continuity betuween one government and the next.
They never used any contraception.
Many workers do not have written contracts.
Eighteen companies are bidding for the contract.
The firm lost the contract to a large London company.
She managed to negotiate a permanent contract with thefirm.
If you go on strike you will be in_breach of contract.
When a houses auctioned the successful bidder must exchangecontracts immediately and paya deposit.
The contract expires at the end of next year.
They put a clause in the contract stipulating that the work should be finished by next month.
He's on a three-year fixed-term contract.
Under her contract of employment, Mrs Lee could not be required to work atadifferentsite.
They won a contract for the delivery of five fighter planes.
The company is being sued for breach of contract.
By using cheaper materials, thecompany has broken the terms of its contract.
He has a controct outon you.
Shetook outa contract on her ex-husband.
There's a basic contradiction in the whole idea of paying for justice.
That's in direct contradiction to what he said yesterday.
There is an apparent contradiction between the needs of workers and those of employers.
That's a contradiction of what you just said.
The idea is almost a contradiction in terms.
The evidence is completely contradictory.
The argument is internally contradictory (= contradicts itself).
The evidence demonstrates ‘how easily people can hold mutually contradictory belicfs.
Hedid something contradictory to his orders.
These results run contrary to our expectations.
It seems contrary to common sense.
My ‘ouwn experience is completely contrary.
The new claim s directly contrary to what was originally stoted.
Contrary to what the public was told, weapons were till being exported.
Contraryto expectations, we didr't have any hold-ups on the journey.
Contrary to popular belid/, the economy is doing well.
Dy, clear, marked, sharp, stark, startiing, striking, ‘strong There is a stark contrast between the lives of the richand thoseof the poor.
The fresh Sruit provides a contrastto therich chocolate pudding.
When you look at their new system, ours seems very oldfashioned by contrast.
The contrast in ‘appearance betueen thesisters was striking ~to This busy ‘social life was acomplete contrast to hisold quiet life.
Their attitudes towards loveand marriage standin stark contrast to thoseof their parents.
He controsted her brashness unfavourably with his mother's gentleness.
Compare and contrast the two main characters in the play.
This statement contrasts starkly with his previous statements.
He was in direct contravention of the law.
This was a clear contravention of therules.
Many people contributed generously to the appeal.
The company contributed £50 000 towards training costs.
He had very little to contribute to the conversation.
Unemployment contributes directly to homelessness.
Several factors might contribute to the development of the disease.
Iinvaluable, positive, ussful, valuable W like t0 think that we are making ¢ positive contribution to society.
He made a major contribution to peace in the region.
We rely entirely onvoluntary contributions.
I'd like to make a small contribution to the cost of the holiday.
The coreaf regular contributors isessential to the magazine.
Carbon dioxide is the largest contributor to the greenhouse effect.
Weeds should be kept under strict control.
He lost control of the cor when he swerved to avold a cyclist.
The car went out of controlon the icy road.
The idea s to give councils full control of their own budgets.
Editors do not exercise control over large sections of their newspapers.
They soon got the situation under control.
Parking is outside my control.
The elected government is back in control.
The department was under the control of Bryce Thompson.
They have little control over that sideof the business.
The event has been cancelled due to circumstances beyond our control.
The police are experts in crow control.
The government has imposed strict controls on new building.
The country has tightened its border controls.
They have introduced controls on public spending.
Once we were in the air; I was allowed to take the controls.
Chief Air Officer Sedley was at the controlsof the Boeing 707.
Conditions in the greenhouse are carefully controlled.
Expenditure within the company is tightly controlled.
He is the new programme controller for BBC2.
His views have excited a lively controversy among fellow scientists.
This year'schampionships have been dogged by controversy.
The prime minister seemed anxious (0 avoid.
The network ran into controversy over claims of faked documentary footage.
The MB who is no stranger (o controversy herself said the scandalcould have serlous repercussions.
The singer deliberately courts controversy with his racist and sexist Iyrics.
Controversy is raging over the route of the new motorway.
Controversy exists as to how safe these drugs are.
The controversy centred on the issue of compensation Jor the victims.
Much controversy surroundsthe new exam.
The minister has resigned amid continuing controversy over his education proposals.
There has been a lot of controversy over the use of these drugs.
All our holiday chalets include a microwave and food processor for extra convenience.
The system is based on administrative conveniencerather than public benefit.
The children like convenience food such as sausages or fish fingers and chips.
Can you telephone me at your conveni.
An order form is enclosed for your convenience.
Sible), comfort and convenience Ir this resort you can enjoy all the comfort and convenience of modern fourisi.
We leave the keys near the frontdoor for the sakeof convenience.
It's a great convenience living next door toa post office.
They wouldn't like Lo live without ‘modern conveniences such as microwaves.
Wearranged a mutually convenient time tomeet.
Would this be convenient for you?o The house isquite convenient for the shops.
Carmelite, Catholic, Franciscan, Ursuline, etc.
She entered a convent came a nun) at the age of sixieen.
The nuns established a convent here n 1692.
In althe~ She spent her whole life in a convent.
Her work refuses any concession to polite conventions of ‘good taste.
Life with the Leighs was not hidebound by rules or convention.
She knew that she had broken an important social convention.
No young politician can afford to flout convention in thiswas.
Convention dictated that dangerous physical action is the part f heroes, not heroines.
In a surprising break with convention, she wore a red wedding dress.
He addressed the annual Republican convention.
She wasat the Democratic convention.
Europaan, UN/Unitad Nations, etc.
Over 60 countries have yet to ratify the climate convention.
Most countries have adhered to the convention.
Thispractice breaches thearms convention.
The convention established procedures for the transportof toxic waste.
This is forbidden under the Euro- ‘pean Convention on Human Rights.
We engaged in a long conversation.
We sat making polite conversation and feeling rather uncomfortable.
He said that teleision had been the death of good conversation.
There was no time for a proper conversation.
When you are struggling with an unfamiliar language, the simplest conversations can be misinterpreted.
We carried on rather halting conversa.
Think of prayer asa twoway conversation.
Young children become quickly ‘bored by adult conversation.
You can't hold a privote conversation there.
He was waiting for her to open the conversation.
They were deep in conversation ond didn't notice the time.
Cara kept up a one-sided conversation.
He tried to steer the conversation away from the topic of money.
She turned the conversation to her work.
She avoided conuersation with the other passengers.
The conversation proceeded in French.
They oll relaxed and conversation flowed freely.
The conversation drified intofomily chat.
The conversation turned to holidays in France.
All conversation ceosed and everyone turned round.
The conversation ended when the vacuum cleaner started up.
All 00 soon the stilted conversation ran out.
In the Western world it s polite tomaintain eve contact during conversation.
In the pro- ‘gramme tonight we hear Dr Chris Toole in conversation with the ortist Mary Witherspoon.
We had a long conversation about old cars.
Jane and her parents ~on a conversation on the topic of activities for children ~with I had an interesting conversation with Dick Whortly.
She ignared all ‘my attempts at conversation.
In close/deep/earnest conversation (with sb) Don was in close conversation with the girl on his right.
She could hear him over the buzz of conversation and laughter: during the course of (the) conversation During the course of conversation, it emerged that Sheila had lived in Nigeria.
Our hostess did her best 10 keep the conversation going.
The main topic of conversation was the big football match.
Today, after a coreful conversion, it is a very comfortable and elegant country home.
There are no charges for currency conversion.
Cheap solar energy conversion has been thedream of some scientists since the 1970s.
In the lateeightles he underwenta religious conversion.
The try came in the third minute and Jon Blond added the conversion.
One of the carly popes, Clement wos a convert from paganism.
The novel vividly conveys the experience of growing up during the war.
Gestures can convey ‘meaning as wellas words.
She was convicted for her part in the crime.
Hewasconvicted of serious driving affence.
You are not obliged to acknowledge spent convictions.
The men's convictions were declared unsafe.
He has three previous criminal convictions.
Yead to A reward is offered for information leading 10 the conviction of the attacker.
They need strong evidence (o secure a conviction.
He believes that too many defendants are escaping conviction by claiming that they ore insone.
The appeal court overturned the conviction against her.
There was no great conviction in his voice.
She had this absolute conviction thot what she liked others would like.
The ex-leaders share a deep conviction that thelr views on world matters are still vitally important.
Nothing could shake her conviction that ‘abroad was a dangerous place.
Her explanation failed to carry conviction in the face of the facts.
Her arguments lacked conviction.
Npolitics The demise of consensus and the rise of conviction politics.
Not true!” she said with conviction.
He had a strong personal conviction about the power of the printed word.
She became convinced that something was wrong.
She was still only half convinced.
Hewas convinced of her innocence.
Sheproduced a convincing enough performanceas the wronged wife.
The ships travelled in convoy.
The patient lost consciousness and went into convulsions.
She wants to becomea professional cook.
Make sure you cook the meat well.
Turn the ish over so that it cooks evenly.
Ensure that the meat is cooked through.
Before he leaves home, he needs fo learn ‘some basic cookers.
Chinese, Eastern, French, atc.
Her cooking s wonderful.
Imissmy mather's good home cooking.
Stir the mixture to prevent the beans sticking to the bottom during cooking.
He went for a swim to cooloff.
Allow the cake to coolthoroughly before removing it from the tin.
Theforest looked cool and shads.
It will probably get cool later; 5o bring coat.
Try to keep the drinks cool.
The temple was light, spacious and blissfully cool.
Shemanaged t0 stay cool during the meeting.
He forced himself to count to ten and act cool.
ProSessionally cool, she went back to her patient.
She was distinctly cool about their plans.
He was cool towards me.
He has said he will cooperate fully with the police enquirles.
In The two companies are cooperating in the development of a new engine.
The firm has agreed to cooperate with the employment survey.
She called for closer cooperation on drugs control.
We are hoping to enlist the cooperation of women's groups.
The film was made in cooperation with the Sports Council.
With the cooperation of the public, the police may be able to catch this man.
You will need a bit of cooperation from your family.
We asked for their cooperation in.
We should like to thank you for your cooperation with us.
The family business is now run asa cooperative.
You need good hand-eyecoordination to play racket sports.
She copes very well under pressure.
Ske is unabletocope with her increasing workload.
Hefelt thot hecouldn’tcopeany longer.
She hadto cope withoutary help.
Some people find unemployment very difficult tocope with.
Brass is ar: alloyof copperand zinc.
It was not the original painting, but a crude copy.
It must be certified asa true copyof the riginal document.
The photocopier had been set for multiple copies.
Remember to make back-up copies of oll your disks.
Youwillneed tosupplya ‘hard copy version of al files.
Iattach a copyof thereport.
Please find encloseda copy of the draft document.
Copies of the article were circulated to members of the committee.
Remember to keep copies of all your correspondence.
Advance copies of the book were sent out (o reviewers.
Free copies of the leaflet are available from the Department of the Environment.
The candidote must subml uwo bound copies of his or her thesis.
Auhor Bob Woodhouse will be signing copies of hisriew book.
Even with the new legislation piratecopies willcirculate.
Knocking copy (= writing that just says ‘how bad sb/sthis) is simply lozy journalism.
This will makegreat copy for the advertisement.
She copied all the addresses into her address book.
Sheslavishly copies theolder girls style.
He's copied that mannerism from his Brother.
She was cought copying off another student.
The publisher ‘has the copyright on oll his books.
Databases are generally protected by copyright.
Copyright protects your work from being commercially exploited by someone else without your consent.
The songs remain in copyright.
His work is now out of copyright.
The family still ‘holds the copyrighton his works.
They sued her for breach of copyright.
Ounership of copyrightcan be transferred.
You need a piece of thick cord ‘about two metres long.
He knotted the cordf hisdressing-gown.
Quite Relations betuween the two governments remained quite cordial.
Police officers threw a cordon around his car to protect him.
The crowd managed to break through the police cordon.
There is a tight security cordon aroundthearea.
Each fibre has a hollow core trapping still air and aiding warmth.
There was a hollow core of sadness inside me.
Inner, innermost, very This is seen as the central core of the government’s pollcy.
These ideas formed the coreaf his philosophy.
Students study five core subjects.
We need to stop this expansion and concentrate on the core business.
At the core of our convictions is belief in individual liberty.
She was shaken to the core by the news.
He's a politician to the core (= in all his attitudes, beliefs and actions).
The corn is still green.
Make sure the stalrcase is well lit, with no awkward corners.
He parked in the far corner of thecar park.
The waiter ledus toa corner table.
Put your address in the top right-hand corner of the page.
There were a lot of young men hanging about on street corners.
As they turned the corner all the parcels id to one side.
Turn right at the first corner.
He found a quiet corner and got on with his work.
Ske sat in a dark correr of the room.
The box had been tucked away inan odd corner of theattic.
She tucked herself away inacorner and readallday.
He pushed the thought back into the darkest corner of his mind.
He was used to having to talk his way out of tightcorners.
Beckham took the corner and Scholes headed it into the net.
He put the goalkeeper under pressureand managed to orce a corner.
James blocked the shot but conceded a corner.
Issue sth The coroner issued a burial certificate.
The coroner ordered an investigation into the man's death.
The coroner recorded a verdictof accidental death.
We passed the desiccated corpse of a brigand honging on a gibbet.
For over a year he lay In his hospital bed, a living corpse.
They saw the corpse sprawied on the steps.
The ground wos littered with the corpses of enemy soldiers.
His first idea proved correct.
Whatou say is perfectly correct, but it gives the wrong impression.
He is not entirely correct in his assumptions.
His estimate has turned out to be mare or less correct.
None of the explanations qffered is demonstrably correct—or demonstrably incorrect.
He was an interesting speaker;if not always politically correct in his views.
The flower drawings are atl (o scale and botanically correct.
Thediagram iscorrect in every detail.
Tam correct insaying that this project is thefirst of its kind in thiscountry.
Make any necessary corrections before the text i printed.
There aresome programming errors that need correction.
Political correctness Is the principle of avoiding language or behaviour that may offend certain groupsof people.
She doubted the correctness of the information.
She was convinced of the correctness of the decision.
High morale among staff wos found to correlate positively with ‘productivity.
Property values are negatively correlated to the tax rate.
The querage speed of the vehicles correlates closely with the severity of the accident caused.
There is a direct correlation between exposure to sun and skin cancer.
The second group of measurements had a high correlation with the first.
Thestudy showeda significant correlation between the baby's sleeping pasition and therisk of cot death.
She corresponded regularly with her former musicteacher.
Numerous items of correspondence have been received on.
He was leafing through piles of correspondence.
It would e foolish for doctor to enter into correspondence with a patient.
The secretary deals with all the correspondence.
Intercept The department intercepted the correspondenceof foreign diplomats.
Al our business is conducted by correspondence.
Inglregarding/relating to files full of confidential correspondence relating to the company's expansion.
American, Moscow, New York Times, etc.
Narrow corridors lead off from the main hllway.
The office is just down the corridor on the left.
She wos @ minister with considerable influence in the corridors of power.
She led usthrougha ‘maze of hotel corridors io our room.
If the pipe is badly corroded, it should be replaced.
Many highly corrosive substancesareused in the nuclear industry.
The whole regime s thoroughIy corrupt.
Corruption was rife before the election.
He strongly attacked corruption end favouritism in the government.
This police unit wos established to fight corruption.
She was brought doun by corruption scandal.
The corruption allegations proved fulse.
Opponents described the reforms asa purely cosmetic exercise.
The high cost of energy was a problem for consumers.
The cost of repairs would be prohibitive.
You will ‘have to bear the full cost of the building work.
The capital cost of these projects (= what it coststoset them up) is some $100 million—then there'll be the operating costs.
Competition will drive the price down near to the marginal cost (= the cost of the labour and materials to produce the product).
Fixed costs include rent.
Allow £15 per day to cover the cost of meals.
Increase, push up Inflation is pushing up the cost of living beyond our reach.
There were cost overrunson each proJect.
It s essential that we operate with the lowest ‘passiblecost baseand most efficient fucilities.
The cost to the governmentwill bequite high.
Increase/a reduction in cost, at na extra cast The hotel offerste and coffee at no exra cost.
The cost of living has risen sharply in the last year.
We have had to raise our prices becouse of rising costs.
The company ‘has to find ways of cutting costs.
The use of cheap labour helped tokeep costs down.
We'rehoping thatwe'll at least cover costsat the confererce.
The town is now counting thecost of it ailureto provide adequate flood protection.
The raid was foiled, but at a cost: an injured officer who was lucky to escape with his life.
He worked nonstop for three months, ot considerable cost to his health.
She saved him from thefire but at the cost of her oun life.
You must stop the press cost finding out at all costs (= whatever it takes to ‘achiovethis).
He'sa ruthless businessman, as Iknowto my cost (=1 know from my own bad experience).
Both sides incurred costs of over £50000.
He was fined £200andordered to pay costs.
The project has not been properly costed yet.
The programme was costed at £6 million.
The six-month delay will becostly for the company.
This process Iscostly in computer time.
These teaching methods are 0o costly in terms of staff reSources.
These measures could becostly toemployers.
For the dress rehearsal, the cast will be in full costurme.
In, dress In, have on, wear He had @ cowboy costume on.
The film is a costume drama based on a 19th-century novel.
The main character had five costume changes.
In~ The battle was re-enacted by actors in period costume.
They lived in a tied cottage on the estate.
Westayed in a cottage on a farm.
She spends severat hoursa week on the psychiotrist's couch.
They sat down on the wide couch.
He slept on the couch.
He's turned into a real couch potato since he subscribed to the sparts channel.
The butler gavea little coughto announce his presence.
He had a smoker’s cough and nicotineyellowed fingers.
He gave a slight, apologetic cough and said, "Excuse me.
He vomited and begon coughing up blood.
The whisky made her cough and splutter.
He had a coughing fit and couldn't speak for a few moments.
Theold engine coughed into Iife.
Many county councils are now controlled.
Students should apply to their local councilor a grant.
Ourparty won themajority of seats onthecity councils.
As a struggling young composer she applied to the Scottish Arts Councilfor a grant.
In Britain, the Arts Council gives grants to theatres.
Conservative, Labour, Liberal Democrat, Tory, etc.
Listen (o the counselof your elders.
In the end, wiser counsels prevailed.
They were denied legal counselor the rightto call witnesses in their defence.
The accused was represented bya leading counsel.
Crown, prosecuting/prosecution The witriess was cross-examined by the prosecuting counsel.
My solicitor will brief the senior counsel.
His counsel argued that he had not intended to ‘harm the women.
Many of the victims of the tragedy still need counselling.
We did a quick count of the children ond there were none missing.
At the last count she.
The pollen count is very high in the spring.
The movie depends on good dialogue rather than violence anda high bodycount.
Thefirm now has ¢ head count of around 70staff.
Keep a count of your calorie intake for one week.
I've lost count of the times T've ‘heard thatjoke.
Her white cell count has gone doun again.
Mory served behind the counter at Bacor’s for few hours c week.
The barman wiped down the counterin silence.
He pushed the money across the counter to her: at/behind althe~ The assistant behind the counter gave curt nod.
The government's programme should be an effective counter to unemployment.
The soldiers mounted a strong counterattack against the rebels.
Women soldiers will join their male counterparts at the army base.
British environmentalists have thelr counterparts in Europe.
If's difficult to live in a foreign country when you don't speck the language.
Many refuigee servicemen gave their lives for their adopted country.
The refugees do jobs that workers in the host country refuse 1o do.
It's a free country” he shouted.
The country was ruled by a brutal dictatorship.
He accused the government of leading the country to disaster.
The issue of the singlecurrency has divided the country.
The former president has been forced to flee the country.
He loved his country deeply.
She represented her country at the Sydney Olympics.
He travelled the country on his ‘motorbike.
The country exports around 80% of its output.
The two countries signed a basic treaty of cooperation.
They are holding special events all over the country.
This is just one of 30 sites ‘@round the countrs.
New schools are being built thraughout the countrs.
All goods must be clearly labelled with their country of origin.
There will be rain in many parts of the country tomor row.
The rich benefited from the reforms, notthe countryas a whole.
This part of Africa isrich farming country.
Wholetracts of country, once fertile, have become arid.
The feel for his native countryside comes through strongly in his photographs.
Zhe countryside has been ravaged by pollution.
In theafternoans they roomed the countryside roundabout.
She represents the county in Parliament.
The river forms the county boundary.
Trowbridgeis thecounty town of Wiltshire (= the town where the local government offices are).
He deposed his father in a palace coupin 1970.
Se lost her position in @ boardroom coup (= a sudden change of power among se- ‘nior managers in a company).
The coup was Immediately put down and the plotters were shot.
Winning thot contract was her greatest coup.
He managed to pull off a major diplomatic coup.
The bridal couple stood up for the first dance.
The hotel was full of honey- ‘moon couples.
They makea beautiful couple.
Westood and drank a toast 1o the happy couple.
This coupon is valid until 31 January.
To enter the competition, fill in the entry coupon on pages.
She had saved enough coupons to get a free flight.
Cut out and return this caupan to claim your free holida.
Caring for elderly relatives requires considerable moral courage.
It takes courage to sing in public.
Lfinally plucked up enough couragetospeakto Rachel.
He 100k a crash course in Itaian.
She withdrew from the course because of illness.
The school runs courses all year round.
It t0ok him five years to complete the course.
The course runsfrom 10-15 Moy.
The boat altered course during the storm.
We set course for Malto.
We're on coursefor our destination.
Thetwo planes wereon a collision course.
It was the best course of action to take in the circumstances.
Her career followed a similar courseto her sister's.
We could do nothing but let thediseaserun ts course.
In the~of In the courseof time, I began to understand.
Thiswas an event that changed the course of histary.
In due coursa (- at the appropriate time; eventually), in the normalordinary course of events In the normal course of events, you should get @ reply hy Mondoy.
When the dog responded so badly (o the treatment, we decided to let nature take its course (= stap treating it and let itdie naturally).
We had chicken for our main course.
Only ten yachts completed thecourse.
She's been put ona courseof injections.
This is the highest court in the land.
They took their case to the appeal court.
Ve are prepared to g0 to court to get our compensation.
Their neighbours took them to court.
The case should not be allowed 1o 0 to court.
The dispute was settled out of court.
He will appear in court tomorrow charged with themurder.
Thecourt was presided over by Judge Owen.
The court heard how the ‘mother had beaten the 11-yearold boy.
The court acquitted Reece of the murder of his wife.
The court dismissed the appeal.
The guilty verdict was quashed by the appeal court.
The court upheld the plaintf7’s claim of unfair dismissal.
The court held that shewas entitled to receive compensation.
He received a court summons for non-payment of tax.
Divarce rio longer requires a court appearance.
They could now face a court battle for compensation.
He was found guilty ot Swindon Crown Court.
The case is now before the court.
In~ Relativesof the dead girl were in court.
He was charged with con tempt of court after shouting at a witness.
The case will be heard by the court of appeal next month.
The chiid was ‘made award of court when her parents werejailed.
Off court she is just as aggressive as she is on the court.
Mozart quickly became a favourite in court circles.
He spent three months assiduously courting a newspaper editor.
She was unfailingly courteous and ‘helpful.
He was perfectly courteous tome.
He apologized with exaggerated courtesy.
She might have done me the courtesy of replying to my lettex.
You could at least have had the courtesy 1o let me know.
He listened toall the complaints with great courtesy.
It's amatter of courtesy towrite and thank people after a party.
The general ordered an immediate court martial.
The officer was convicted of desertion at acourt martial.
He was tried by court martial.
They went there together during their courtship.
The courtyard is surrounded on three sides by stables.
The hotel Is built around a paved central courtyard.
These pigs are close cousins of the wild hog.
Completely out of the blue, she gota letter from her long-lost cousin in New York.
She's my Arstcousin once removed (= the daughter of my cousin).
We spread dust covers over the furniture while the builders were in.
We descended into Heathrow through thick cloud cover.
She threw back the covers and got outof bed.
The RAF provided air cover for the attack.
Ive for, run for, take We ran for cover as It started to rain.
The deer broke cover as the hunters approached.
We attacked at night, under cover of darkness.
They sought cover from the wind.
The club is G cover for various criminal activities.
She used dried leaves and twigs to cover up the hole.
She tried to cover her fuce with ‘her hands.
He tried to cover his embarrassment by starting torub his hands together.
Hecovered the body witha cloth.
In The cars were all covered in snow.
The children were completely covered with mud.
The payments he gets barely cover his expenses.
This policy should cover you against accidental injury.
There's been massive teleuision coverage of the World Cup.
The television company was given a special award for its news coverage.
Tre minister’s resignation was given widespread coverage.
The wedding had wide press coverage.
Media coverage of the march focused on the few fights that broke out.
The car ‘sped past, leaving us covered in mud.
Make sure all cooked meat is well covered.
Each body was covered by a blanket.
In I was covered in blood.
The path was now completely ‘covered with thick snow.
In Military leaders were involved in a mojor cover-up.
The cow had difficulties calving.
He was ‘branded acoward in some newspapers.
He went all coy when I mentioned her name.
She gave him a rather coy look.
Alicia wasa little coy about how much the new dress hod cost.
Wide cracks appeared in the ground during the droughi.
There'sa crack in thefence big enough to look through.
Thedish had cracked quite badly.
The stresses of her job became too great and she finally cracked.
He thought he'dnever get through the ordeal without crocking up.
He is under a lot of pressure but is showingnosignsof cracking.
They're having & crackdown on private phone colls from the office.
He picked the child up and gently cradled ‘him in his orms.
She sat with the child cradled against her.
Sheep shearing is a highly skilled croft.
The men practised vartous traditionalcrafts, such as carving toys outof bone.
Subjects tought include ortond craft, drama, languages and maths.
The gollery hasmajor exhibitions of ortsanderafts.
It o0k her years toperfect her croft.
We admired the superb crafismanship of thefurniture.
She had a sudden painfulcramp in her left leg.
There was a sickening crash as her head hit the ground.
With a~ The plates fell to the floor with an almightycrash.
The crash cloimed three lives.
Ina/the~ Hewas killed in atrain crash.
The cat was sitting on an upturned crate.
Their possessions had all been packed into shipping crates.
They stacked the crates in the corner of the yard.
They packedthecrates with books.
The blast blew ¢ gaping crater in the road.
We peared over the lipaf thecrater into the volcano.
He had a craving to see the world.
The traffic was moving ata slow crau.
The traffic on the motorway was down to a crawl.
As night fell, we managed tocrawl back toour lines.
She coloured the picturein with crayons.
In~ Thenotice was written in crayon.
The princess started craze for hugeearrings.
Doctors warned of the latest drug croze to sweep America.
I'd go crazy if I lived here.
The group’s performance lwoys drives the audience crazy.
We were crazy with excitement.
The kids would answer back, and that drove her crazy.
Hewas crazy ot me for letting the goot in.
The gate gave a loud creak as he pushed it open.
The gate suung open with acreck.
The chair creaked under his weight.
The ice creaked and ‘groaned underfoot.
The door creaked open an inch.
Whisk the creom and icing sugar together.
Fill the meringues with whipped cream.
We had strawberries ond cream for pudding.
Put little antisepticcream on the grazed skin.
Stir the mixture until it looks creamy.
It tastes delictously creamy.
She had lots of deep crecses at the corners of her ees.
Iron out, remove, smeoth (out) ‘She smoothed the creases from the tablecloth.
There were a lot of creases in her skirt.
Her clothes were badly creased.
They recommended the creation of a netw government agency to be responsible for the environment.
The new Act allows for the creation of vecational schools.
Idor't always feel creative.
This rigid approach stifles creativity.
My job does not give me much scope for creativity.
Al living creatures need food.
Dogs are more social creatures than cats.
Woodiand ~ creatures such s foxes and owls are increasingly common in towns.
These timid ttte creatures exude a pungent smell when threatened.
The newborn young are helpless creatures and easy prey or birds.
It is awesome to see these magnificent creatures in flight.
Younger children can be left in the créche.
City established their championship credentials with a 6-0 win.
First, he had to establish his credenticls asa researcher.
She had excellent credentials for the job.
The certificate has ‘great credibility in France and Germany.
The government is desperate to regain credibility with the public.
Recommendations from two previous clients helped to establish her credibility.
Funding from the World Bank lends credibility 1o the project.
The use of computers adds credibility to the forecasts.
The prime minister's credibility suffered in his handling of the crisis.
Athletics' anti-dope campaigners are faced with a credibility problem.
There is little credibility among scientists for the book's clatms.
I'm notsurethat 1find her story credible.
You need imagination tomake what you write fully credible.
It seems barely credible that anyone could have walked sofar ina da.
When poorer people use credit, mail order is the key source.
If you don't have & regular income you may be uncble 1o get credit.
Most shops selling furniture or electricat goods will offer credit.
The bank refused further credit to the company.
We propose to expand credit in order tocreate demand.
Your credit limit is now £2000.
He has a bad credi rating (= seems unlikely to pay the money back).
He's a bad credit risk.
If damaged items have to be returned, the manufacturer may issuea credit note.
I'm paid by direct credit into my bank account.
We ‘should give due credit to all who helped make the event a success.
The success of the venture reJlects great credit on the organizers.
To fer eternal credit, she gave them a ‘home.
At least give him credit for trying.
We left the cinema before the final credits begantoroll.
He'sa greatcredit to the school.
The bank credited the oil company with £500 000.
Icredited you with a little more sense.
She is generally credited as having written over 50 novels.
The work has been credited (o a sixteenth century bishap.
He s wideIy credited with having started the Middle East peace process.
She gave a highly creditable performance as the wicked queen.
Your credit card is nolonger valid.
My credit card expires at theend of June.
Heranupa huge billon his creditcard.
They agreed to repay their creditors over a period of three years.
The plot of the novel stretches credulity to the limit.
Other countries have ‘adopted this political creed enthusiastically.
He creptup behind me.
He crept stealthily along the corridor: ‘down, into (figurative) Suspicion creptinto her voice.
The cat quietly crept up on the pigeon.
Fatigue was creeping up on her.
It foels abit creepy inhere.
It can get pretty creepy in the cellar at night.
The music reached ‘adeafening crescendo.
Westaod on the crest of the hill.
Fire crews were called tothe scene.
The crowd loves to watch attacking cricket.
This game marks his comeback to the international cricket scene.
The only sound was a cricket chirping.
Two key witnesses at her trial committed perjury.
He has been accused of her murder convict sb of, find sb guilty of~ She was found guilty of high treason.
The engineer responsible for the collapse of the bridge was acquitted of manslaughter: admit, confess to, deny~ All three men have denied assault She admitted 33 assault charges.
He pleaded guiltyto a charge of gross indecency.
She s being investigated for suspected bribery, be suspected for/of~ Heuwas the least likely to be suspected of her murder belcome under investigation for~ She was the second minister to come under investiga: tion for corruption.
He was wanted on charges of espionage.
The police and the public must work together to solve the murder.
Jean was arrested for arson.
The nurse’s murder trial continues.
The police agreed 1o drop the conspiracy charges against him.
The jury convicted her on two counts of theft.
Not returning phone calls is a grave crime in today's culture.
She claimed that the real crime is that burglars ‘andmuggers usually geta light sentence.
He boasted of having carried out the perJect crime.
After the reforms the only capital crimes were treason and murder.
She never faced trial for her many alleged crimes.
Insider dealing has been called a victimless crime.
Many crimes arenever reported to the police.
Noweapon wasfound ot thescene of the crime.
Corporate crime—committed by businesses— hould not be confused with white-collar crime, which reJers to the occupation of the perpetrator and may be directed against a_business.
Police forces will exchange ideas on cracking crime.
The public have a crucial role to play in detecting crime.
Hesays that bored youngsters turn tocrime.
Fear of crime imprisons many elderly peaplein their homes.
Vic tims af crime may beable to obtain compensation.
He has been associating with known criminals.
She was treated like a common criminal.
He was triedas a war criminal.
He flushed crimson and began io shout angrily at Frank.
She was crimson with rage.
He's cighty and crippled witharthritis, leave sb crippled The disease left him cripDled.
The industry has been financially crippled by these policies.
British coal industry is facing a serious crisis.
He's having a mid-life crisis.
Union leaders are taking immediate steps to defuse the crisis.
Assoon s the crisis was over; sherelaxed.
Three people died during the hostagecrisis.
The team’s dismal season has reached crisis point.
The company is sufJering a severe crisis of confidence.
In times of crisis it's good to have someone you can rely on for advice.
She failed fo ‘meetthestringent selection criterio.
The other groups agreed to adopt our criteria.
Team members will be selected according to strict criteria.
By this criterion, very few people are suitable.
The report lays down criteria for disciplining staff.
She is one of her husband's severest critics.
He s now a major criticaf the nuclear industry.
Critics accused the government of giving in to pressure from the tobacco companies.
Critics point out that povertystillexists.
The film was hailed by critics as a triumphant piece of realism.
The play was panned by critics.
Critics described the paintings as worthless rubbish.
She became openly criticalof party policy.
The report was highly critical of the railiway’s poor sajety record.
Maintaining control of the the budget is absolutely critical for success.
She made a number of valid criticisms.
Two successive defeats have brought fresh criticism.
Voice Criticism was levelled at senior managers.
The government came under fierce criticism for its policies.
The proposal is open to several important criticisms.
She sought to deflect criticism by blaming her family.
He finds it hard to take criticism.
None of what has been said should be taken to imply criticism.
The harshest criticism come from rightwing ideologists.
Criticism centred on the lack of information provided.
The main criticism about the information provided i that it arrives foo late.
European single currency ~for They received criticism for continuing to supply the faulty goods.
We are bound to fuce criticism from both sides.
There ‘has been serious criticism of the teaching methods used in theschool.
Wecame in for some sharp criticism over thisdecision.
She has openly criti.
Their record on human rights has been justifiably criticized.
Shecriticized the system for being secretive.
The law was widely criticized asracist, criticize sbisth on the grounds that The film was criticized on the grounds that it glorifies violence.
The book providesa thorough critiqueof current theories.
Fudder crops are used to feed livestock.
Rivers burst their banks and flooded standingcrops.
Most of the farmers &grow arable crops.
Summer flash floods destroyed the crops.
Crops are sprayed with highly toxic chemicals to prevent insectdamage.
Isalated communities were extremeIy vulnerable if crops faited.
Crop rotation helps prevent soilerosion.
Bring strawberry plants indoors for anearlycrop.
We had a very good crop of apples last year.
It takes three to fiveyears for anew ptantation to bear a crop.
His hair was closely cropped.
His hair had been cropped shartand he looked different.
The grave was marked with astonecross.
Jesus Christ on the cross * PHRASES (make) the sign of the cross The priest blessed her; and made the sign of the cross over her.
Into They crossed from the States into Canada.
We crossed over the river into Sweden.
She crossed to the door: crouch Cross ad.
I'm going to get very cross before long.
Are you still cross about me forgetting the Jlowers? at She was very cross at the way she'd been treat: ed.
She was quite cross with him for being late.
His alibi would not have withstood cross-examination.
He was found to have lied tuwice in crossexamination.
The defendant broke doun under cross-examination.
You'll go cross<yed if you try to look at things soclose toyou.
The price includes ac commodation and ferry crossing.
We discussed our plans during the crassing.
Thess are all places where people walkingcan crossaroad.
They were stopped and searched at the border crossing.
We are standing atan important crossroads in the history of Europe.
The contestantsaredrawn from a cross section of society.
Weinterviewed a wide cross section of people.
The hare crouches low on the ground.
We crouched down to avoid being seen.
They crouched over thedead animat.
The black crow perched on the telephone pole.
She gave the purse to Ruby, who crowed with delight.
The president read a declaration to a vast assembled crowd.
Boxing is a sport that always attracts large crowds.
Police were called to disperse the croud.
An expectant crowd gathered outside his house.
The crowd grew to over 15000.
After the ambulance drove off the crowddispersed.
Crouds lined the streets of the ity as the president's carapproached.
She fought her way through thecrowd.
She's happy ta follow the crowd.
We all like to think we stand out from the crowd (= are different from other people).
The shops were all very crowded.
The store wascrowded with shoppers.
The croun was placed upon the new monarch’s head.
In 1688 the crown was offered Lo William and Mary.
In 1553 the croun passed from Edward VI to Mary.
He lost his Olsmpic crown to George Rice.
She swept her hair into a bun at the crown of her head.
There were raindrops on his baldcrown.
If's absolutely crucial that we getthisright.
The talks are crucial for the success of the ‘plan.
Secrecy is crucial to this palice aperation.
Tcan’t stand people who are cruel to animals.
Cases of child cruelty occur mare often than they are observed.
Her stepmother showed her ‘nothing but cruelty.
The children suffered mental cruelty and neglect.
Caribbean, Mediterranean, world, etc.
Sheusedall her savings to goona world cruise.
She ‘brushed the cake crumbs off the tabl.
He bitinto the roll, scattering crumbs.
The charity tonight launched its great crusade against homelessness.
Heis ona crusadeto take the church to the people.
For 23years he led acrusadefor peace.
Shehad a huge crush on one of her teachers.
His hand was badly crushed in the accident.
Crush the biscuits finely before adding them to the mixture.
She was crushed against the wall.
We saved a few crusts of ‘bread for the birds.
The mud had formed a thick crust on the surfaceaf the road.
Put the lid on properls, or a crust wildform on the paints.
He sawreligion asa psychological crutch.
She can only walk with crutches.
She gave an ‘agonized cry as they lifted the fallen branch from her leg.
Hewas toa weak toraise even the smatlest of cries.
An involuntary cryescaped her as he entered the room.
He fell to the ground with a cry.
Her suicide attempt was really a desperate cry for help.
You'll feel better wher.
What areyou crying about?for a child crying for hismother over Iwasn't going to waste time crying ‘over him!with Anna was almost crying with frustration.
Finally he broke down and cried likea baby.
Ieit likecrying wherI found out whathad happened.
He was a Jatherlyshoulder to cry on when things went wrong.
Indignantly “Never!” he cried angrily.
She wanted to cry out to him not to besostupid.
What do you mean? she cried in agitation.
Who's there? she cried in a shrill voice.
She cried for help as the fire spread.
He gave her a big cuddle and told her not to worry.
They were having a cuddle on thesofa.
Give Mummy a big cuddle.
Kiss and a cuddle He just wants a comforting kiss and a cuddleand he'll beall right.
Her husband took his cue, and said that it was time for them to leave.
This was the cuefor him to comeinta the room.
Ella camein right on cue, Just as they were being rudeabout her.
They all took their cue from their leader.
We sampled the local cuisine.
The hatel has a large dining room serving superb local cuisine.
The show ‘marked the culmination of months of hard work.
The space race reached its culmination in the first moon walk.
Keep the kitchen clear of all sources of bacteria, not forgetting the biggest culpritof all—the dishcloth.
Police hunting the culprits ‘have condemned theattack.
He became a cult figure during the 1960s.
The book achieved cult status as s00n as it was published.
The show has built upacultfollowing.
Theland here has been intensively cultivated for generations.
Olives have been cultivated successJully in southern Australia.
Thismodern image is actively cultivated by the company.
African, black, Greek, Western, world, etc.
These ideas have always been central to Western culture.
Prisoners are isolated from the wider culture of society at large.
As yourg ‘people started to have more money, a significant youth culture developed.
The Romans gradually assimilated the culture of the people they had conquered.
Netwcomers to the company are soon assimilated into the culture.
The new director s trying to foster a culture of open communicationwithin the company.
She experienced greatculture shock when she first came to Europe.
In some cultures children have an important place.
Jokes are an importart ‘partofour popular;oral culture.
She is a woman of wide culture.
She had great cunning and ruthlessness.
He had used cunning (o get what he wanted.
With~Shemanaged him with greatcunning.
She was so thirsty that she drained her cup.
She raised her cup to her lips.
Enrique stirred his jourth cup of coffee of the day.
You sitdown and I'll make youa nicecup of tea.
The cup will be presented to the winning team by the president himself.
He lifted the cup for the sixth time this year (=it was the sixth time he had won).
They were the first Turkish team to win a major cup competition.
The team are ready for next week’s World Cup clash with Italy.
There’s a broom cupboard under the stairs.
Put the clothes in the airing cupboard.
The cupboard was Jullof old toys.
We had some new cupboard units fitted i the kitchen.
In althe~ Put the plates in the cupboard.
Many companies have imposed.
This legislation will greatly curb the power of local authorities.
There s no instant cure for thiscondition.
His newjobwas almost arestcureafter the stresses of thearms.
The cure works by boosting the body's immune system.
Aids ~from He was hoping for a cure from his debilitating illness.
Prevention is better than.
These drugs can sometimes effect miraculous cures.
Science cannot provide a curefor all the world's problems.
She still believed that somehouw she could be miraculously cured.
He was now completely cured of his illness.
The whole area has been placed under curfew.
The strict curfow has now been lifted.
Protesters defied the curfewand took to the streets.
The city is still under curfew.
Many people are in favour of a curfew on young people.
She has an insatiable curiosity about life.
School should awaken a child's natural curiosity.
Wewent 1o the show out of curiosity more than anything else.
The children watched us with mild curiosity.
Her secretive manner had made me curious.
He saw a book on the table and picked it up, idly curious.
Puppies are naturelly curious.
She was curious as to why he was there.
Ifind it very curious that you did not tell anyone.
The winetasted rather curious.
She smoothed doun her tangled curls.
He carefully teased his curls into place.
Her auburn curls tumbled about her ace.
Her fuce was framed byamop of black curls.
His hair spilled in curls over his forehead.
She raked a comb through her wayward curis.
Her hair was styled into a cascade of spiral cur.
Her hair lostits curlas she got older.
He acknowledged her remark witha faint curiof his lips.
His fingers curled tightly round the steering wheel.
Smoke was curling up from the chimney.
Thecat curled into e ball and fell asleep.
The photograph was ‘brown and curling at the edges.
Currencies unit of money in a country value of a currency compared ~be fixed/pegged to change/convert sth into/to~ with others Many emerging countries have Tuantiochange 100dollarsinto wigh, rising, strong~ SAdaman e ohediior - ""‘“".
Business should benefit from Thedollar valueof thestock rose uy, sol astronger euro.
The bank will sell you one Russian.
Theyen gained 10 points against ‘Therise in government spending Many of the collocates of MONEY a weak dollar: was equivalent to only 9% in (for example make, spend) can also over-valued-- dollar terms.
Research suggests that the pound.
The country spends millions of e ooereou o, All prices are based on the South dollars on overseas aid everyyear.
African rand exchange rate.
The Fiji dollar may hove to be Shewos paid thedollar equivalent How many dinars will I get devaiued.
Jforadollar? defend, prop up, protect, shoreup, against the~ in (the)~ support~ ‘The yen has strengthened against Thecontract is denominated Shedismissed suggestions that the the pound.
How many dollars are there to the ~for~ ~boworthsth pound? The company promises to match One Soudi Arabian riyal is worth depreciation/devaluation/reflation any money the charity makesdollar _ @PProximately 0.
Jfordoliar ~strengthen thedevaluationof the peso in 1994 ~'s worth of sth The peso strengthened on the arunonthe~ amillion pound’s worth of books Joreign exchanges.
The government increased interest ~come under pressure rates to avoid a run on the rouble ‘The pound came under pressure (= sudden large buying of the against thedollar; ~close, open ‘The pound closed yesterday at arisein thevalueof the euro Lasodollars.
They prefer (o be paid in foreign currencies.
You can convert sterling into the local currency.
The fund supports weak currencies.
The country needs to raise enough hard currency to pay for it oil imports.
For Sour months all major currencies floated.
The system allows currencies to fluctuate within certain limits.
The disappointing profits are due (o unfavourable currency translations.
They make money by speculating on the currency markets.
This belief has gen eralcurrency.
The prevailing current flows from east to west.
The strong current carried the boat downstream.
She was sweptaway by the treacherous currens.
He was swimming ogainst the current.
The boat was carried along in the current.
Birds of prey use warm air currents to liftthem high in the sky.
Check all sour wiring before Switching on the current.
Measure thecurrent flowing in the wire.
Teachers Jfeel that the present curriculum is too narrow.
Student choose from optional subjects in addition to the core curriculum.
His disability does not prevent him from following the mainstream curriculum.
English, geography, mathematics, etc.
Children learn many of their attitudes to lifefrom the hidden curriculum at school.
Film Studies has been introduced into the curriculum as anoption.
Pupils use computers across the curriculum (= in all or most subjects).
They all have to study French because if's on the curriculum.
More room should be given to foreign languages in the curriculum.
We cover allareas of thecurriculum.
Let's gofor a curry after the film.
She thought that she must be under curse.
The witch is supposed to have put a curseon the house.
He cursed under his breath as the spanner slipped.
Zcursed her roundly for being late.
He was now cursing the day he had ever got involved in the project.
She cursed her luck that she had had to queue for so long.
His power has beenseverely curtailed.
They sat in the dark with the curtains drawn.
She pulled back the curtains, and sunlightstreamed in.
The curtains ‘billowed madly as the wind caught them.
He took a bag from a shelf behind some curtains.
At the end of the play the curtain came douwn to tremendous applause.
The road went round in a tight curve.
The seats were arranged toforma curve.
Theroad ollows thecoast in a wide curve.
Thepath curved down towards the village.
The road curved ‘away round the back of the hill.
He sank back into the soft cushions of thesofa.
She plumper up the sofa ‘cushions before the guests arrived.
Strain the custard to remove lumps.
If valuables are placed in the safe, the hotelis responsible for their safe custody.
The parents were glven joint custody of the two children.
The man died while in police custody.
The opposition leader has been taken into protective custody.
In~ She will remain in custody while reports are prepared about her mental condition.
They still Jollow the custom of pinning money to the bride’s dress.
These customs still prevail in remote areas.
The rules have grown up through custom and are ot laid down by law.
They are one of our biggest customers.
They organized an evening’s entertainment for fovoured_customers.
Like to think that we ‘have satisfied customers.
Wecan't afford to lose any more customers.
If you have a complaint, contact the customer care unit.
Part of good customer relations is knowing how to deal with complainss.
The terms of the guarantee will be et out in the customer agreement.
This cheaper model was produced in response to customer demand.
The questionnaire is to test customer reaction to the new store design.
They carried outa customer satisfaction survey.
Theyare hoping that TV advertising will increase their customer base.
We cleared customs by five o'clock.
You will have to declare these goods when you go through customs.
We were waved through customs without a pause.
We had to fill out customs forms on the plane.
We were waiting for the goods 1o recelve customs clearance.
We got stopped and searched a the ltalian customs.
Using sharp scissors, make a small cut in the ‘material.
She got a bad cut over her righteye.
Clean the cut and cover it to prevent infection.
One man wasattacked ‘and suffered cuts to his face.
I'vemade an appointment to havea haircut.
The company has announced a new round of job cuts.
They are planning fo make substantial cuts in the service.
The staff have all hadto take acutinsolary.
The cuts will come info effect next May.
The recipe calls far a gaod leancutof beef.
Make sure you cut the bread nice and thick.
Cut the stem cleanly, just beneath a leaf Joint.
Cut the courgette in half lengthways.
They cut away all the dead branches from the tree.
She picked up the knife and cut into the meat.
He cut the bread into thin slices.
You can cut and paste betueen different programs.
Two survivors were cut free after being trapped for twenty minutes.
Into pieces Cut the cake inta six pieces.
She cut the loof in two and gave me one of the halves.
She ell and cut her head open.
His career was cut short by injury.
We have managed to cut our costs quite drastically.
The price has been cut from £25010 £17.
Social work services have been cut back drastically.
I'mtryingtocutdown on fatty foods.
His thoughts were abruptly cut off by a blinding flash of pain.
They were completely cut off from the outside world.
Many theatres are ‘having to makemajor cutbacks.
After about four weeks you will be able to see whether the cuttings have taken.
These plants are easy to propagate from leaf cuttings.
Take cuttings from mature ‘Pplantsin the spring.
Life is a natural cycle, just like the changing seasons.
The Furopean market is simply going through an economic cycle.
To complete the cycle, oxygen is necessary.
Male and female adults mate, the female lays eggs, and the cycle begins all over again.
The number of yourg produced per breeding cycle varies from species tospecies.
We're going for a cycle ride this afternoon.
Cars arenotallowed in the cycle lanes.
They completed their journey by cycle.
An exceptionally violent cyclone hit the town last night.
In 1974 Darwin was devastated by Cyclone Tracy.
The piece ends with a cymbal crash.
He spoke ina tone of weary cynicism.
Therewas nota traceof cynicism in his voice.
She viewed his new interest in her with cynicism.
There is now widespread cynicism ‘about the political system.
Thedecision is just plain daft.
The dam has ‘been breached and thereis a danger of flooding.
The dam burstand the valley was flooded.
The incident did permanent damage to relo.
He was prosecuted for criminal damage toa vehicle.
The insurance policy covers the building for accidental damage.
She suffered serious brain damogeat birth.
The earthquake caused widespread damage to property.
They inflicted severe psychological damage on their opponents.
The palace suffered extensive damage by fire in 2625.
Crops are sprayed with chemicals to prevent damage from insects.
Thecostof the damage is estimated at around $2 billion.
At the moment it is difficult 1o assess the extent of the damage.
He decided fo sue the company for demages.
The ‘court will assess the damages.
In (law) If goods are lost in transit, the carrier will bellable for damages.
In~ They are claiming £45 million in damages.
Hereceived damages for personal injury.
Shewas ‘awarded domages of £90 000.
The judge upheld_her claim for domages against her former employer.
The building was badly damoged by fire.
Shemay have domaged her health irreparably.
This scandal could prove sertously damaging to the government.
These new measures willdo nothing toraise schoolstandards: they may be positively damaging.
Building the proposed netw roadwould be environimentally domoging.
Smoking is damaging to health.
The house had got woodiworm and rising damp.
The surveyor found domp in the kitchen.
Tre room smelled damp.
The rain hod made the wallsdamp.
Our clothes had got a bil damp.
In her delight she g0t up and did a little dance.
They met ata dance.
They danced wildly doun the street.
Hewas almost doncing for joy.
Wedanced to the music.
She's a very good flamenco dancer.
She does line dancing and yoga in the evenings.
They liked to go dancing every Saturday night.
She's taking dancing lessons.
There was dancing in the streets when we heard that the war was over.
They are in grave danger of losing everything.
She knew that she wasnowin mortal danger.
There isa realdanger that the bridge will collapse from the weight of traffic.
They are in imminent danger of attack.
There are inherent dangers in the system.
The pollution from the factory is a public danger.
On their journey across the desert they faced danger of all sorts.
He was convicted of causing danger to other road users.
No one foresaw the danger.
The animal seemed to sense danger.
Some people take crazy risks because they get a thrill from courting danger.
Vigorous action is needed to avert the danger of runaway inflation.
One of the biggest dangers facing us may be climate change.
The danger lies in becoming too complacent.
The biggest danger to gorillas comes from humans.
We waited until all danger had passed.
Despite the high levels of radiation, people are now moving back into the danger zone.
He recognized the danger signs and gave up smoking.
The divers were paid danger money for working in such hazardous conditions.
The United manager believes Figo is the opposition's danger man.
In~We weren't in any danger.
The plantis ‘now in danger of extinction.
There is no danger to the public rom these chemicals.
He was admitted to ‘hospitalin critical condition, but is now off the danger list.
The situation could get quite dangerous.
The ice is making the roads very dangerous tonight.
This route through the mountains is notoriously dangerous.
Raising income tax is considered politically dangerous.
This treatment is extremely dangerousfor the ‘mother.
He had grown more dartng.
Her behcuiour was considered very daring at the time.
Greatly daring, he covered her hand with hisown.
We could just make out some figures in thegathering dark.
The girls weren't allowed out after dark.
We'd better try and finish this job before dark.
Ihategetting up in the dark.
Many small children cre afraidaf the dark.
Suddenly the whole sky went dark.
As it grew dark, they gathered round thefire.
Its only threeo'clock and it's nearly dark alreads.
The building was in pitch darkness.
It was becoming impassible to see the map in the ‘gathering darkness.
The electricity failed and the house was plunged into darkness.
The valley lay in darkness.
The building was in darkness.
Her eves seemed to glow in the darkness.
The car disappeared into the darkness.
The bombing took place during the hours of darkness.
They moved cbout under cover of darkness.
The book starts with a quick dash through the country's history.
Add a dash of lemon juice.
Thefood is European with a dash of Moroceo.
Into, out of, through, to, up He dashed franticallyacross the road.
Her hopes were cruelly dashed when her parents refused to let her go.
We have amassed the raw data and are about to begin analysing it.
Ore vital item of data was missing from the table.
Special saftuware is needed to ‘manipulate the mass of data.
Although we were using the same setof data, we obtained different results.
We need to callect more data before we can do any more work.
They are not allowed to hald data or peaple’s private finances.
The government departments refused ta providethe data thatwe required.
The data derived from this praject has vastly increased our knowledge of how genes work.
Data indicates that most crime is committed by yaung males.
This data reflects the magnitude of the problem.
We have found some very interesting things in the data.
Data about patients is anly released with their permissian.
We have na data for sauthern Spain.
My aim is to synthesize data from allthe surveys.
We're trying ta create our own computerized database.
The database is updated monthly.
The new database contains 200 000 images.
The information is stared on a large database.
She suggested an earlier date for the meeting.
May, 1999 was a very significantdateinmy life.
The closing date for applications is May 22.
This yogurt is past its sell-by date.
Historians disagree on the cut-off date for the medieval period.
The building was not finished by thecompletion date.
We cannot accept applicatians received after this date.
The election is scheduled to take place at an unspecified date in the autumn.
The building must be finished by the date agreed.
The agreement runs from that date.
T've got tuwo meetings on that date.
We need to set a date for the wedding.
Joe's getting reads for his big date on 3rd March, when he gets married.
More maney will be made availableat some futuredate.
Wecan do thatat a later date.
The foundations are Roman, but the rest of the building isof more recent date.
It's difficult to put a date on when this neighbourhoad became fashionable.
She met her husband an a blind date.
She had a hat dateand wanted to look her best.
I'vegota datewith Camilla an Friday night.
We must make a date to have lunch.
She wanted to arrive in time to keep her date.
He was late, and ended up breaking their dinner date.
She'soutonadate with her new bafriend.
It has nat yet been passible todate the paintings accuratels.
This drama series is supposedly modern yet its characters liveina curiouslydated world.
They've got three young daughters.
His wife recently gave birth to.
Living alone and trying to bring upa small daughter is no easy task.
He always got up to greet thedaun.
NoTE Days of the week last, next, that, this (coming)~ all day~ open/closed (on)~ ~tastinext (week) The restaurant isclosed all day We'reopen every day except ‘The concertis this coming Saturday.
Areyou free next Thursday? night, etc.
Monday dawned still and.
She’sarriving on Friday next.
Saturday lunchtimesarevery busy autumn sunshine.
Id been paid the previous Friday.
She was due to start work the Tllpostit first thing on Monday on Wednesday at the town hall.
She was born on a Sunday.
Hearrived on Monday of lastweek.
Tuesday night, (from)~to~ Wecame here the Tuesday one~ (written) ‘The ticket offce is open until 5 pm.
One Saturday morning, without Monday to Friday.
Tve bought tickets for Thursday Iboarded a bus and headed out.
Entriesareto arrive no later than week (= for the performance thatis spend~ Monday, 1 October: seven days after Thursday).
She liked to spend Saturday for~ the firstsecondithird/lastin/of the afternoon shopping.
The museun is free on the last S0 I'lsee you Monday, then? ~'s deadiine, election, game, Sunday of every month.
Icould manage (= meet you on) ‘He was not present at Tuesday's The competition i fixed for Tuesday, say 11.
The dawn chorus (= birds singing) woke Robyn at five.
Ammunition was seized during adawn raid on theflat.
That morning, she rose af dawn.
He works from dawn to dusk, and often well into the night.
This sudden success may prove to be a false dawn (= not the beginning of continued success).
Let's think back to the dawn of time.
It was beginning to dawn on her that she had been fooled.
The dreadful truth finally dawned on me.
It happened on the very day (= the same day) that Kemp was ‘murdered.
The parcel arrived thevery next day.
The tabloid press had a field day with the latest government scandal.
He thought of her less as the days passed.
He's getting stronger by the day.
They stayed for ten days.
We hope to finish thejobinafewdays.
On thedayof his wedding ‘hewasvery nervous.
It was the day of the big match.
Memories of happy days on the hills never fade.
On a bad day chaos reigns and nobody can predict when a plane will leave.
Ihada fullday's driving ahead of me.
Ve spent the day gardening.
As day dawned I found her already hard atwork.
We travelled at night and rested by day.
Ing the-~, for aithe~ We went to the seaside for the day.
Iong),at the end of the day, day and night, one of those days I¢'s beer one of those days when everything's gone wrong.
In sb's~ Things were very different in my grandJather's day.
Much has changed since the days of my youth.
That was in the ‘bad old days of rampant inflation.
European drama, from Ibsen to the present day these days Kids grow up so quickly these days.
He was robbed in broad doylight.
The thin curtains let in the daylight.
The shutters were closed to keep out the daylight.
The prisoners emerged, blinking.
Hedrew back the curtains and the daylight flooded.
Thedaylight penetroted to the far corners of the room.
The evening turnedcoolas daylight faded.
The public has access during daylight hours.
She was up before daylight.
By daylight the fire was almast under control.
Shewent back out inlo the daylight.
The machines roar incessantly during the hoursof daylight.
Resist the temptation to nap in the daytime.
She looked dazed and frightened.
The punch left him dazed and bleeding.
His wife lay dead beside him.
The animal will sometimes escape danger by shamming dead.
He just dropped dead one day in his garden.
Gunmen shot dead a policeman.
She had been struck dead by lightning.
The woman was found dead with rope round her neck.
She was declared dead on arrival at the hospital.
In ten years he'll be dead and buried as a politician.
That won't happen until long after 'm dead and gone.
We didn’t know whether the fish was dead or alive.
The deadline set by the High Court is Monday 3rd March.
We're asking them to extend the deadline.
It will be a struggle to meet the deadline.
She began 1o panic as the deadline approached.
The Wednesday deadline passed without any communication from the rebel leader.
Sinished by tomarrow's deadline.
The deadline for entries is noon Thursday.
The negotiations ended in deadlock.
The strike appeared to have reacheda deadiock.
The negotiations were adjourned in deadlock last week.
The summit called for an end to the deadlock in the peace talks.
The govern- ‘ment has called new talks in an atlempt to break the deadlock aver the issue of redundancy money.
Talks between the tuwo stdes remaln in a state of complete deadlock.
Their child was born deaf.
He eventually went deaf.
Ske remained deaf until she died.
Many of these children are profoundly deaf.
She spoke loudly because her mather was a little deaf.
The TV station has signed an exclusive deal 10 show all United's home games.
The company are affering cut-price deals on many flights.
He has been mixed up in several shady deals with arms dealers.
The union accepted a package deal including higher pension and longer holiday allowance.
The band signed a two-album deal with a record company.
Management and unions have agreed a new deal an pay and productivity.
I'll make a deal with you — Tl work evenings if you' ltwork weekends.
Nurses have taken to the streets to get a fair deal from the government.
She has a lucrative deal with a cosmetics company.
Any sponsorship deal would be scuppered if Jones misses the Olympics.
Staff have accepted a dealoffering them a 2% shareof profits.
The pay deal will not now g0 ahead.
They took over the company in a £750000 deal.
Under the deal, you save ‘money if you repay the loan early.
France and Spain ~from You may get a better deal from another bank.
The unions are ready io do @ deal over pay.
The company has done a deal with thecatering staf.
Theunion tries toget a square deal forallits members.
Increased holiday allowance is part of the deal.
The shop dealsin second-hand books.
Our Jactory deals directly with its customers.
This topic is dealt with at greater length in the following chapter.
You have not deal fuirly with me.
Not all complaints are so easily dealt with.
The two issues should be dealt with separately.
We discussed difJferent ways of dealing with the problem.
The new arrangements will help the banks in their ordinary day-today dealings.
They had extensive dealings with officialsin Rome.
The president's untimelydeath has throtn the country intochaos.
He had been ‘miraculously saved fromalmost certain death.
Police are not treating the death as suspicious.
Policereporta decreasein violent deaths.
Poor living conditions can lead toearly death.
Touching the wiresmeans instant death.
The brutal attack resulted in the man’s death.
She died a slow and painful death.
He met his death two years later.
He escaped death by inches when tree fell on his tent.
Ished by Incest was punishable by death.
Her death came at the age of 82.
More deaths occur in winter.
The government's campaign aims t cut the death rate from heart attacks.
The death tollin the earthquake has been put at over one thousand.
If found guilty of drug trafficking, the palr could face the death penalty.
There are currently over 3 000prisonerson death rou.
Your nextof kin will receive death benefit if you die in an accident.
After the death duties had been ‘paid, therewas littlemoney leftfor the family.
The actor has received death threats since appeoring in the controversial film.
He took drugs as if he had some kind of death wish.
The snake was writhing in its death agonies.
By 1740 European feudalism was in its death throes.
On his deathbed, my father made me promise not to sell the house.
Paramilitary death squads arerumoured to be operating in the area.
By publicly condemning the terrorists he was ‘signing his oun death warrant.
He died asa prisoner of war inan enemy death camp.
Do you believe in life after death? at~ (formal) The average age at death of plague viclims was 14.
His face looked more peaceful indeath than it had during his last days.
It was clear that the dog was near death.
On Samuel's death, the farm passed 1o his sons.
Two deaths from cholera have been reported.
The coroner said the cause of death was a stroke.
Fulfilling orders on time is a matter of life and death for a small campany.
Four prisoners were under sentence of death.
This is a highly debatable poin.
There fias been heated debate about whether the Sfilm should be allowed.
You cannot separate un- ‘employment from the wider debate about the economs.
Television actually encourages public debate about such issues.
Many leading charities have contributed to the debateon worid poverty.
This accident has sparked off an intense debate on road safety.
He accused the government of trying to stifle debate.
The environmentalists seem to have lost the debate over the building of this road.
The issue is still under debate.
The proposed changes to the law have been the subject of much debate.
We had a brief debate ‘about whether or nol fo accept the offer.
The union holds debates for students.
The prime minister will open the debate.
The government lost the debate in the House of Commons.
Many of these points were raised during the debate on prison reform.
The issue is still being hotly debated.
The question of security needs to be debated publicly.
Hesat there debating with himself what to do.
The report has been wideIy debated in the industry.
She was kit on the head by fiying debris.
These worms feed on plant debris.
The fank exploded, scattering debris all over the field.
Teams of people are working (o clear thedebris.
Police have spent the daysifting throught the debris for clues.
Debris accumulates at the bottom of the bottle.
Ske found a pair of children’s shoes among the debris.
He was burdened with crippling debts.
Bad debt has hit the bank's profits this year.
She ran up huge debts on her credit card.
Without a job, he'll never clear his debts.
It Il take months to pay off all your debts.
The riew governments main aim s (0 tackle the country’s massive debr.
The firm defaulted on its debt and its assets were seized.
After series of meetings, the banks were forced to rite off the company’s debs.
The fall in exports has let the country unable to service its debts.
The company has reached a deal with its major creditors allowing it to restructure its dels.
Thenational debt stands at $7 000 million.
Faced with a mounting ‘burden of debt, he sold off the company.
Into, slip into It is easy 10 get into serious debt with a credit card.
You can get out of debt bystrict economizing.
In~ He was heavily in debt by the time he sought advice.
Jam in Ruth's debt for the excellent advice she gave me.
In the introduction, the author acKnouwledges her debi to other writerson the subject.
Weoweagreat debt of gratitude to our families for their support.
This decade has passed uneventfully.
This decade ‘began badly for us.
The past decadehas seen a huge risein thenumber of computer ouwners.
Bacteria sticks to food debris in the teeth, causing decay.
Without a lot of maney, the mayor won't be able to stop urban decay.
This government promises to reverse industrial decay.
The wood is ireated with preservative io prevent decoy.
The derelict buildings are the signs of a toun in decay.
Smoking accelerates age-related decay in the heart and arteries.
My dentist could not find any signs of decay.
Some of her teeth were very badly decayed.
The wood was compietely decayed.
New Shoreham, now sadly decayed, has barely 100 inhabitants.
Hismother is now sadly deceased.
The public should not be deceived into buying inferior goods.
Your behaviour is an offront to public decency.
He might have had the decencyto letus know.
The pub looked decent enough.
We had trouble finding a hotel that was halfiway decent.
Myuncle has been pretty decent (o me.
This elaborate deception fooled.
He'll use deception fo get what he wants.
She failed to see through his deception.
Shewas charged with obtaining property by deception.
Appearances can be deceptive—dangerously deceptive.
We finally decided to stay where we were.
He decided very wisely to keep his money rather than spend it.
They decided againsttaking legal action between It was difficult to decide between the various options.
In favour of They decided in favour of reducing the Jees.
We'restill trying to decideon c venue.
She should be allowed to decide for herself.
The committee will have the task of deciding whether more cash should be ‘madeavailable.
We need a firm decision by Friday.
Irrevocable On Monday, the board of directors will meet to make their final decision.
Joint, unanimous I the end, the decision to scrap the proJect was unanimous.
The committee will give us their decislon tomorrow.
The decision has been made, ‘and wemustall abide by it.
The management committee upheld her decision to fire two of her staff.
Nobody has the authority to overrule his decision.
Special pageat MEETING decisive adj.
He had one potentially decisive factor in his favour: the element of surprise.
It is the chief executive’s opinion which is ultimately decisive.
When we heard the alarm, we went upondeck.
The passengers were trapped below deck.
The Russian leader received a ringing declaration of support yesterday.
All four countries have adopted the declaration against hunting rare animals.
Virtually He has virtually declared war on the right-wingers in hisparty.
Immediately, promptly Martial law was immediately declared.
She proudly declared that she had once been introduced to the Queen.
The communists had unilaterally declored a ceasefire.
We, the people of Indonesia, hereby declare Indonesia’s independence.
The cloth trade went into gradual decline.
The increased gold price lead 1o the decline of his jewellery business.
We must hait this decline in health services.
The motor industry s still in decline.
This area has been on thedecline for some yearsnou.
The economy has declined sharply in recent years.
The market for these products is dectining fast.
Profits declined by 6% this year.
The ‘number of full-time staff has declined from 300 tojust 50.
This section of the market has slowly declined in importance.
Intricately, lavishly, ornately, richly The room was lavishly decorated with tinsel and holls.
Decorate the coke with raspberries and whipped cream.
The bedrooms are tastefully decorated.
Theroom isdecorated in pale blues and greens.
The items hemakes are purely decorative.
There has ‘been a sharp decrease in pollution since the law was inroduced.
Fewer houses are available, but thereisno corresponding decrease in demand.
Half the companies inthesurvey reported a decreaseinsales.
Marriage is still on the decrease.
The new treatment led 1o a huge decrease in the number of deaths.
Crime has decreased by 20 per cent.
Average family size has decreased from five to three children.
The number of quarrels among children decreases with age.
The heart gradually decreases In size.
Local inspectors helped enforce presidential decrees.
The general will rule by decree until @ general election.
Inan emergency decree, the government bannedallrallies.
The workforce is small buthighly dedicated.
Sheis totally dedicated to her job.
Not everyone has the dedication and the talent to achieve this.
You will need dedication cnd deermination to complete the course.
The job requires total dedication.
The total amount can be deduced logically from the figures available.
Using the evidence available it is possible to deduce quite a lot about how these people lived.
We deduce from his behaviour that he is trying to gain attention.
Tax is deducted at source.
This amount will be deducted automatically from yoursalary.
Shearrived at this conclusion by logical deduction.
Wecanmake some deductions aboutthe historyof theruins.
She arrived at the solution by a stmple process of deduction.
Iy makes tax deductions from your salary.
She felt that she had done her good deed for the day.
The prince suwore she would be punished for her dastardly deeds.
She would not be able to relax until the deed was done.
In~(s) He frequently expressed his love for her in words if not in deeds.
Thewater looks quitedeep there.
Her voice sounded very deep on the telephone.
This suspicion runs very deep ‘among some government members.
Their party suffered a heavy defeat in the electlon.
The battle ended in a humiliating defeat.
They lost 4-3 In their second narrow defeat of the week.
She is very determined, and will never admit defeat.
The prime minister conceded defeat and resigned.
The tear went dotwn to their fifth con secutlve defeat.
Inflict The army inflicted a heavy defeat on rebelforces.
Manchester United~by their defeat by the French PHRASES defeat at the hands of sb The team sufferod defeatat the hands of their oldest rivals.
The English were heavily defeated by the Scots In the battle that followed.
The proposed bill was decisively defeated in Parliament.
Our team was narrowly defeated in the final.
Themotion was defeated by 20votes 10 18.
Goods with slight defects aresold at hal price.
Al lambs are checked for birth defects when they are born.
The book contains serious defects.
He has a congenital heart defect.
The inspector found defects in the aircraft’s construction.
This isa physical defect that cannot be cured.
The builders agreed to remedy the structural defects.
If the goods prove defective, the cus.
Her vision is seriously defective.
They put up an effective deJfence against the guerrilla forces.
With her tears andangry accusations she completeIy overwhelmed his defences.
The sea breached the coastal defences ina number of spots.
Shespoke in his defence.
The city lay defenceless before the ‘most powerful fighting force on the continent.
They were left virtually defenceless against enemy attack.
She felz utterly defenceless.
They were completely defenceless against enemy attack.
The city was heavily defended againstattack.
The company has strenuously defended its decision to reduce the workforce.
She defended her department against accusations of incompetence.
The defendant was charged with disturbing the peace.
The defendant was canvicted of murder: & The jury Jfound the defendant guilty on all counts.
The defendant was sentenced ta threeyears in prisan.
Jfendant for the~ Severat witnesses gave evidence for the defendant.
These are purely defensive measures.
Whenever anyone mentions women's rights, he gets rather defensive.
He did not once glance at his listeners and seemed fiercely dejensive.
Her manner was oddly defensive, as he hadn’t intended any criticismat all.
He is extremely defensiveabout his work.
The decision has been deSerred indefinitels.
Sentence was deferred for six months.
Diagnasis was deferred pending further assessment.
We agreed to defer discussion of these issues until the nextmeeting.
The actress was accorded all the deference of a visiting celebrity.
The traditional menu was changed in deference to Western tastes.
She spoke with great deference.
She held up a clenched fist in defiance.
They organized a street demanstration in defiance of the ‘government ban.
Despite the criticisms, she remained defiant.
Sylvia tassed back her dark halr in a gesture that wasopenly defian.
I've been prescribed iron tablets to make up the deficiency.
An engineer could remedy the defictencies in the design.
An educational system which falls to teach basic arithmetic is seriously deficient.
Their food is deficient in iron.
If the gavernment didn't run such huge deficits, the country would nat ‘have financial prablems.
The trade balance shows defcit of two million pounds.
The company has run up a deficit of £30 000.
You cannot cut a budget deficit simply by raising taxes.
We will find it ‘hard tomake up this deficit.
United are hoping ta overturn a two-goal deficit fram the first leg.
The government was forced to sell state- ‘ouwned companies tofund the budget deficit.
There may be problems if respansibilities are not adequately defined.
Social values are not easy lo define.
The difficully of a problem was defined in terms of how long it took to complete.
The ferm ‘partner’ requires careful definition.
The author provides a clear definition of cultural Guareness.
According 1o a strict definition.
The firm falls within the statutary definitian of @ 'small company'.
We need a good working definition of “poltution’.
This unusual building barely fits thedefinition of @ house.
Under the broader definition of “poverty’, thousands more peopie would be included.
These machines are now considered defunc.
He wrote many articles for the now sadly defunct newspaper; the Daily Correspondent.
Campaignershave said that they are prepared to defy the law in order toachieve their aims.
The solemn event rapidly degenerated into Jfarce.
He found the work extremeIy degrading.
The car had spun through 160 degrees on impact.
Place the shelf at a 90 degree angle to the wall.
If you study the sy through 360 degrees you will see a wholé range of colours.
Temperatures inside the burning building are estimated to have reached 600 degrees centigrade.
Water boils at 100 degrees centigrade.
Celsius/centigrade/Fahrenhelt, minus 10, 20, etc.
It was possible to date these remains with a fair degree of accuracy.
His arguments are simplisticto an extreme degree.
The party leaders were all found to be corrupt in varying degrees.
The boss sometimes follows her instincts to a dangerous degree.
There isa degree of risk in any sport.
By slow degrees, the cornpany’s turnover dwindled to nothing.
Tl excitement and sadness in equal degree as I waved ‘goodbye to my colleagues.
Ife were all disappointed to a greater or lesser degree.
Candidates must have at leastan upper second class honours degre.
Candidates must hold a professional degree inarchitecture.
He ook a degree in law then Joined a law firm.
The university conferred on him the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws.
He died from severe dehydration.
Incarnation/manifestation/representation of a deity Many animals were seen as the manifest ation of adeity.
She looked sorroufisland dejected.
They were thoroughly defected and miserable.
After a considerable delay, the government has agreed to accept the recommendations.
Inordinate, undue, unnecessary Undue delays have been caused by people not doing their Jobs properly.
There is a five-minute time delay on the bank’ssafe.
Passengers haveexperienced long delays.
The proJect has been plagued by delays.
The strike has led tosome delays in train services.
Please address your letters properly so as to reduce delays.
Travellers complained about lackaf information when travel delays occurred.
Please send him the information withoutdelay.
Mellanby's arrival was seriously delayed by a late train.
These drugs can significandly delay the onset of the disease.
They decided not to ‘send a delegate to the conference.
No fewer than 2000 delegates attended the conference.
The prime minister met with an alk-party delegation from the city council.
Invite ‘The government invited an international delegation to inspect theplant.
The delegation included representatives from nine nations.
The British delegation walked outof the discussions in protest.
All managers should learn effectivedelegation.
Many of these taskscan be dealt with by delegation.
His name will be deleted from the list.
After carefuldeliberation, it was agreed to abandan theproject.
With slow deliberation, he tore the letter into pieces.
The eggs of this bird are considered a great delicacy.
He handled the situation with extreme delicacy.
These objects are very old and should be treated with great delicacy.
The glasses looked very delicate.
Her bones flt as delicate as a bird's.
This is a somewhat delicate subject.
Ically a politically delicate ituation del us adj.
Iook, smell, sound, taste The recipe sounds delicious.
The beef tasted delicious.
The meal was really delicious.
His mind was reeling with an almost aestheticdelightat the beauty of the thing.
She ook evident delight in frightening the children with horror stor.
Alice squealed with sheer delight when she saw the mankeys.
The news was greeted with great delight.
Infwith ~ We danced around with childish delight.
She gave a whoop of delight and dived into the water.
He expressed his delight at seeing us all again.
Much to the delight of the crowd, the band came ‘backand did three encores.
The baby was a constant delight and source of amazement.
Savour the culinary delights of Morocco.
The old lady’s reminiscences were a continual delightto Constance.
Mrs Cartuwright said she would be only too delighted to present the prizes.
Poor Gloria, " she soid, although she was secretly delighted.
They were highly delighted at the court's decision.
I'm delighted by your news.
He's reclly delighted with his new CD player delightful adj.
It has been a most delightful evening.
The packoge had been delivered by hand.
You can either collect the goodsor have them delivered.
The baby was delivered safely on Tuesdcy night.
All mail deliveries were suspended during the strike.
Thecutswillinevitably impact on service delivery.
We do all our deliveries in the mornings.
The government has now taken delivery of the new fighter planes.
He was employed at the local grocery store s ¢ deliveryboy.
Pleasepay the driver on delivery.
The company offers ree deliverytoyour home.
The shop receives only ‘one delivery of books per week.
The figures show an increase in forceps deliveries.
She hod a very easy delivery with her second child.
Jjusta foolish and dangerous delusion.
The psychiatrist said she was suffering from paranoid delusions.
He had no delusions about his feelings for Kate.
She ked delusions of persecution.
Don't go getting delusions of grandeur.
Dy, legltimate, relistic, reasonable 1 think your demand for higher wages is perfectly reasonable.
There have been renewed demands for the government to take action to reducecrime.
Themanagement hed no intention of meeting union demands.
Demands have been made for the immediate distribution of food to the refugees.
Campoigners have stepped up their demands for immediate government action.
Campaigners insist that abortion should be availcble on demand.
Demand for the product is buoyant.
She is in constant demand to ‘make public appearances and give interviews.
Wecan estimate that total market demand for electricel goods will rise by 8%.
By popular demand, the play will run for another week.
The slowdown in domestic demand was offset byan increase in exports.
Thefactoriesarestaying open all weekend to try tomeet theconsumer demand for this product.
It is the job of themarketing manager to create demand for the new product.
Supply normally exceeds demand for the bulk of consumer goods.
It can be difficult to forecast demand in the construction industry.
Increase, rise Demand for personclcomputers hasrisensharpl.
As demand slows, the need to export will return.
In~ These old machines are still in demend.
The person who connot say ‘no’ to others' requests is likely to be ov whelmed by external demands.
Lifeis hard for nurses on children's wards, where the emotional demands can be overwhelming.
My elderly ‘parents make a lot of demands on me.
My wark seems to make more and ‘more demands an m time.
Irritably, roughly, sharply ‘Wrere arethe keys? she demanded angrily.
He had demanded money from her: of They Jailed to provide the information demanded of them.
The wor brought about the industry's sudden demise.
He praised the union’s aims but predicted its early demise.
The military regime has promised to restore democracysoon.
We livein a multiparty democracy.
There have been major changes in the constitution, but the system remains democratic.
Ly democratic form of government.
In 1776 these were considered dangerously demacratic principles.
The church has been threatened with demolition for years.
They started a campaign fosave the hauses from demolition.
He is plagued by demans which ga back to his traumatic child- ‘hood.
He fled as if pursued by demons.
Our study demanstrates ‘beyond doub that the play was written by Shakespeare.
Tis tragedy graphically demonstrates the dangers of watking on the fells after dark.
The prime minister must demonstrate to the country that heis really in control of his gavernment.
Campaigners were demonstrating against the sloughter of dolphins.
Their objective was todemanstrate peacefully for civil rights.
The president's decision provoked public demonstrations.
Thousands gathered for a peaceful demonstratian.
Taxi drivers staged a demonstration against the new law.
The de- ‘monstration was called offat the last minute.
Police inriot gear dispersed the demonstration.
The minister does ‘ot wish to provoke further demonstrations.
The visiting president was greeted by hastile demansirations.
Hundreds were arrested during demonstrationsin the capital.
I'llgiveaquick demonstration of some knitting technigues.
Thestrike was a dramatic demanstration of the power of the workforce.
Angry demonstrators threw stones.
Police opened fire on a crawd of peaceful demonstrators.
Troops were brought in ta disperse the demanstrotors.
Water cannon and tear gas were used against the demonstrators.
The demonstrators had gathered in the cathedral square.
Demanstrators marched on the parliament building.
The demonstrators dispersed when the soldiers arrived.
Demonstrators clashed with government soldiers in thecountry's capital yesterday.
Demonstrators then tried to storm the police headquarters.
When Iasked if she had cheated in the exam, she answered with a vehement denial.
The document contatns an explicit deniol that the company ever sold orms.
Despite official denials, it oppears the government did makea deal with the terrorists.
The chairman of the company issued a denial of the allegations.
His question wos greeted witha chorusof denicls.
He was publicly denounced es a traitor.
The government was bitterly denounced for the emergency measures.
Someone in the villoge must have denounced them to the authorities.
These new regulations have been widely denounced.
The populotion density in this city is very high.
The latest health scare ‘has made avery considerable dent in the sales of beef.
The impact of the stones ‘made litde dentsin the metal.
Mysideof thecar hada lorgedent int.
The car was quite badly dented on one side.
Being turned down for the job dented his pride quite badly.
The appeorance of these cheap goods from abroad has severely dented the company's sales.
The experience fuiled to dent her confidence.
She couldn’t get treatment because she wasn't registered with the dentist.
She doesn't wear her dentures at night.
Remerber toclean your dentures ofter you take them out.
In his speech, he ‘made a ierce denunciation of government policy.
Iy, strongly, vehemently, vigorously Bot’ women vehemently deny the charges against them.
He has categorically denied being involved in the fraud.
If anyone accuses me Ishall simply deny it.
He s consistently denied murdering hisestranged wife.
You can't deny that it seems a very attractive idea.
Noore would deny that there is @ very great need for change.
There is no denying the fact that she is on excellent scholor.
They were cruelly denied victory by an injurytime strike from Owen.
Children could be compelled to work on the form, effectively denying them schooling.
You cannot deny this opportunity tome.
The plane was scheduled to depart at 8.
They shook honds all round and prepared to deport.
He departs for New York tomorrow morning.
The Tokyo police department is clamping down on organized crime.
Staff criticized the way the history depertment was run.
Complaints are dealt with ina different department.
Everyone was a bit puzzled by her sudden departure.
Impending The guard blew his whistle to warn of the troin's imminent departure.
Thelast checkin time is 45 minutes before flight departure.
He madea hasty departure.
Her row with the MD probably hastened her de.
Wesat in thedeparture lounge waiting for our flight to becalled.
You should receive sour flight tickets at least a week prior to departure.
All visitors must sign the book on arrival and again on departure.
The author takes Freuds dream theortes asthe point of departure for his essay.
This document marks a radical departure from eartier recommendations.
The future of the company will depend crucially on how consumers respond.
Shedependsentirely on her parentsfor money.
She isloyaland totally dependable.
The couniry has a growing dependence on foreign_aid.
Their relationship is based on a strong mutual dependence.
Many of the patients are closely dependent on staff for dayto-day emotional support.
The country is heavily dependent on oil and gas imports.
Modern science is critically dependent on high-performance com puting.
Jane had never met anyone so utterly dependent.
The land is dryand wholly dependent on rrigadon.
The various organs of the body do not function in isolation but are mutually dependent.
Small firms are dependent upon the local economs.
The amount of benefit you recelue is entirely dependent on the amount you have paid in.
Your access to good education is largely dependent on where you live.
The book vivldly depicts French society of the 1930s.
Bot} teams were severely depleted by injuries.
Increased consumption of water has led to rapid depletion of ‘groundwater reserves.
Tanks were deployedeffectively during the long campaign.
Without the full deployment of resources, we cannot achieve our aims.
Many refligees were forcibly deported back to the countries they had come from.
He was de- ‘ported from Britain last week.
The Home Secretary has recommended the two drug dealers for deportation.
The government issued adeportation order against the four men.
Building society deposits haveincreased by 2.
She made a deposit of £60into heraccount.
All deposits for holiday cottages are refundabie.
You ‘haveto pay a deposit of £100as well as two months’ rent.
You'll get bock your deposit once we've checked the bikes are all right.
If furniture fs damaged, youwill forfeit your deposit.
Ihad to leave a £50deposit on the bike.
Thefloods lefta thick depostt of mud over the fields.
Sterling is expected 0 depreciote agoinst thedollor.
The rupee depreciated by 9per cent.
Cars depreciate in value Joirlyrapidly.
She became severely depressed after her mother's death.
There is medical evidence to show that he Is suicidol and.
She's terribly depressed obout losing her Jjob.
I'was depressed by our lack of progress.
The shipping trade was badlydepressed.
The actor says he suffers frequent bouts of depression.
In a fit of depression, she threw awoy all her favourite books.
Into, go Into, succumb to She fell into a black depression ond refused to leave her room.
She was diagnosed as having clinical depression.
His wife had left him and he was being treoted for depression.
She was gradually coming out of her depression.
Bereavement con often lead to depression.
Her depression has lifted nou.
He may have killed himself in depression.
He's been off workfor months with depression.
These results should not be a cause for depression.
The onset of depression often follows traumatic event.
He was ina state of acutedepression.
She had been receiving medical treatment for depression.
The country is experiencing a severe economic depression.
The housing market has gone into depression.
Many people lost their jobs in thegreat depression of the 1930s.
From the ai the photos show a shallow depression on the planet's surface.
Many of the ‘people sufered terrible deprivation.
Younger students cannot be expected to have great depth of understonding.
Water nor- ‘mally moves more slowly at shallower depths.
The camera must be strong enough to resist the immense water pressure ot depth.
The clam burrouws in the sand 1o considerable depth.
In~Istudied phonology in depth ot university.
Idon't like going outof my depth in the sea.
The demonstration showed the depth of feeling against the war.
They sent a deputotion to the ministry to complain.
The managing director agreed fo receivea deputation from the factory.
He * was appointed deputy head of the school.
She isacting asdeputy to the chairman of the board.
Trey took her into hospital because she was mentally deranged.
The land lay derelict Jfor ten years.
The houses were ‘made derelict by thefire.
Females and cubs clearlyderive some beneit from living in groups.
This income was derived directIy from his writing.
We can derive some comfort from this fact.
Into, to The path descends steeply Lo thevillage.
The breed is almost directly descended from the Eurasian wild boar.
He claims to be descended froma Spanish prince.
He was an O'Conor and a distant descendant of the last High King of Ireland.
They began the difficult descent of the ‘mountain’s south west face.
The plane was making its finai descent so we had to fasten our seat belts.
The engines fuiled on the plane’s descent to Orly.
The plane began its gentie descent to Heathrote.
We slowed the balloon's rateof descent.
She claims direct descent from Queen Victoria.
Most European languages have a common descent.
She is Hungarian by descent.
He claims to have traced descent from Christopher Columbus.
She is of mixed Euro- ~pean and Africon descent.
In detail Their daily lives are described in detail.
This process is fully described in section three af the book.
He described briefly what happened.
Words cannot describe our Jeelings at that moment.
Iy how Caesar was stabbed todeath.
The catalogue gives a full description of each product.
Zike a fish out of water’ wos an opt description of how I7elt in my new job.
She gave us a lurid description of the birth.
Job There was no mention of any cleaning in my job description.
Police have issued description of the gunman.
His foce was so odd that it defies description.
The passage is purely descriptive.
The terms are descriptive of strong emotion.
The theatre and cinema closed and the town becamea cultural desert.
The land loses its protective cover of vegetation and.
He became the first person to cross the desert anfoot.
The desert stretched for endlessmiles on all sides of us.
The streets were completely deserted.
He finally received the recognition that he so richly deserved.
This hotel fully deserves its four-star grading.
Iydeserves to lose her job.
She deserves some reward for all her hard work.
His work received only tiny mention in the journal: he deserves beter: well deserved At last she managed to havea well deserved rest.
All the causes ‘seem equally deserving.
She's done some design work for us in the past.
The new CAD program really speeds up the design process.
I'm doing a course in artand design.
He's come upwitha reallygood design fora solar poweredcar.
We followed the traditional design.
The latest model incorporates some noveldesign features.
The architect put forward two alter native design concepts for the new library.
The car wouldn't win anydesign awards, but if's very reliable.
In~Themachine is quite simple in deslgn.
The other houses are built to a more conventional design.
Thelr new car is stillat the design stage.
These shelves have been designed very cleverly to fit into corners.
They run specially designed courses for monagers.
The instruments are designed for use in very cold conditions.
The area has now been formalIydesignated as a Site of Special Scientific Interest.
These areas have been specially designated Jfor children.
They brought in an interior designer to suggest colour schemesfor the house.
She works as a set designer for the Royal Opera House.
Noteat o8 desirable adj.
This kind of work isseen asdesiroble.
Experience of computers is highly desirable.
It is clearly desirable that domestic and European {aw should be compatibie.
He found her intensely desirable.
Most children have an insatiable desirefor knouwledge.
They were motivated by a deep desire for money and farme.
Horses need 10 satisfy their desire for space and freedor.
He felt he was nothing ‘more to her than an object of desire.
The empty desk suggested she had already gone home.
He got up from his desk and went to the windouw.
My desk gets very cluttered {f 1 don't clear it at the end of each day.
He was sitting at his desk working when we got home.
The manager sat frowning behind his desk throughout the whole interview.
Leave sour valuables at the reception desk.
She paid for the book at the cas': desk.
Staff experiencing problems with their computers should ring the helpdesk.
There was a longqueue at the check-in desk.
We asked the man on the information desk fora map of theccits.
Sbe, seem, stand The house stands desolate and empty.
The land was left desolate.
The landscape was quite desolate.
He looked as desolate as Ruthfelt.
Her voice soundeda little desolate.
The novel tells the storyof a teenager driven to despair by the hypocrisyof the adultworld.
In~ Robert shook his head in despair.
Jfeltdespair at being deceived.
When he became ill he sank to the depths of despalr.
In a moment of despair, a feeling/sense of despair [ was overcome with a feeling of utter despair desperate adj.
She felt utterly desperate.
There was a note of desperation in hervolce.
Driven to desperation by our noisy neighbours, we called the police.
In (your)~ In desperation, I decided 10 try acupuncture.
In his desperation to escape, Tom had slipped and broken a leg out of~ At theend of the film, theman becomes a thief out of sheer desperation.
The robbery was an act of desperation.
With strength born of desperation, she managed.
Police have conderned the theft from an elderly widow as despicable.
To fail was considered despicable.
It was an absolutely despicable thing todo.
She thoroughly despised him for his weakness.
Patients often feel despondent.
His work was rejected again and again, and he grew more and more despondent.
She was feeling utlerly despondent.
He had become rather despondent about ‘his lack of progress.
The town is a popular destination for art lovers.
The islandis an ideal holiday destination.
The deposed leader is reported to have Jled the capital to an unknown destination.
The goodsareexamined by cusioms at the portof destination.
She was convinced that ‘sooner or later she would fulfil her destiny.
The timewas right for him to meet his destiny.
No man can escape his destiny.
Something was about to 'happen that would shape her destiny.
She set up her own business because she wanted to be in control of her own destiny.
He was driven on by strong sense of destiny.
Their lives have ‘been virtuallydestroyed by this trogedy.
The rainforest is being systematically destroyed.
The building was destroyed by fire last ‘health and lives of young people.
These weapons are capable of destroying the entire plane.
She seemed intent on destroying everything they had built up together.
Tiie horse broke a leg and had to be destroyed.
Some shapkeepers closed early to prevent the wholesale destruction of their property by the hooligans.
The tornado left a trail of destruction behind it.
Children will quickly testtheir toys ta destruction.
These substances can be destructive to health.
The lid is fully detachable.
The handle is detachable from the bag.
She tries to remain emotionally detached from her patients.
She gazed at the body with almost clinicaldetachment.
He shows impartiality and detachment.
She watched with complete detachment as the others made all the preporations.
It is important to #et even the small details right.
Now let us examine this idea in greater detatl.
Every new animal or plant found was recorded in ‘meticulous detail.
Ican still remember the accident in graphicdetail.
The diary contains intimate details of their life together.
We'll give you full dedetain tails of how to enter our competition later.
He only managed to give the police a few sketchy detals of the robbery.
Ionly know the barest details of his plans.
Everyone must approve the basic plan before the final details aredrawn up.
The book provides a wealth of detailon datly life in Ancient Rome.
Ensure that your diagrams contain the oppropriate Tevel of detail.
Briefly describe the product, but da ot give any technical details at this stage.
Idon't want to g0 into any more detailthar absolutelynecessars.
Details of the ‘pension plan are set out below.
Therulesare set out in detailinchapter seven.
We haven’t yet worked out the travel detals.
We had a terrible time-""Oh, spare methe details (= don’t tell me any more).
Tomorrou's papers will contain full details of the case.
The receipt shows details of the item purchased.
Tre city council refused to disclose detalls of the proposed traffic ban.
You can find out more details of the offer from your local travel agent.
Enter your details i the form below then click on ‘submit.
The secretary took my details and said they would get back 1o me.
Make sure you check the details of the policy before you sign it.
The computer records the details of everyone entering the country.
The speech was well delivered but facking in detail.
For details contact Joanna Morland.
In~ I ‘haven't looked at the proposal in detail yet.
They're still arguing over the details of the contract.
For more detailon how to obtain a visa, see page .
The secret of their success lies in their attention 1o detail, down to the last detail an expedition planned doun to the last detail every last detail ‘She remembered every last detail of what Id told her the ‘month before.
He has an excellent eye for detail.
The report was criticized for its lackof detail detailed ad).
He was kidnapped and briefly detained by aterroristgroup.
This issue need not detain us long.
She was arrested and detained for distributing pro-democracy leaflets.
In connection with Over 60 people have been detained in connection with the coup attempt.
He has been detained without trial for nearly tuo years now.
Some sub- ‘stances can be detected fairiy easily.
The test fuiled todetect any itlegal substances.
The latest figures skow falling crime detection rates.
She hired a private detective to follow her husband.
We are going to have to do some detective work on this.
Opponents of the regime had been subJect to arbitrary detention, torture and execution.
Indefinite IF found guily of smuggling drugs.
They were sentenced to 12 months’ detention in a young offender institution.
She spent 18 years in detention.
He ‘made the confession while under detention.
The judge will fixthe period of detention.
Her words of warning would hardly deter him.
These new rules are likely to deter people from coming forwardfor help.
His health began to deterioratequiteseriousl.
Mental and physical deterioration botk occur nalurally with age.
Limits on the dumping of waste will at least pre vent further environmental deterioration in the region.
The car's bodywork wasalready skowing signs of deterioration.
The prime minister's speech revealed a cléar determination to break the power of the unions.
He has the deter- ‘mination to succeed.
The govern- ‘ment last night signalled its determination to resist tax cuts.
With~He hung on with grim determination.
We need a detailed investigation todetermine exactly why these cancers are occurring.
Computer models help to determine whether a particular area is likely to flood.
It is difficult (o determine the exact causeof the lliness.
They were quite determined that he wasn't going 10 do it.
His voice wasgrimly determined.
Defenders of the death penalty clearly regard it as the ultimate deterrent.
They stressed the need for an independent nuclear deterrent.
They were arguing about the deterrent effect of nuclear weapons.
The bodies of executed criminals were ‘hung on the city gates as deterrent.
There is no effective deterrent Jor these young criminals.
Wehadto makea lengthy detour through the backstreets.
Trucks now face a five-mile detour around the bridge.
Sugaris positively detrimentol to bodybuilding.
The pound was devalued against the US dollar: by The Cambodian currency was effectively devalued by 25 per cent.
The hurricane caused widespread devastation.
We surveyed the devastation wrought by the fre.
He survesed the scene of utter devastation beneath him.
The tornado left a trail of devastation n its wake.
She was born premoturely with poorly developed lungs.
Environmental factors can accelerate the development of certatn cancers.
To0 much emphasis on memorizing facts can inhibit the development of creative thinking.
The company went deep into debt to finance the development of the engine.
In the opening chapter, the author traces the development of judo from its ancient roots.
The invention requires more development work to make it viable.
Cell divisions during development occur in a fixed sequence.
In~ A more powerful version of this devote electric bus in currently in development.
The new vaccineis still under development.
Anglo-Irish relations a stage of development This isa perfectly normal stage of development.
Themove from TV to flm was a logicaldevelopmentin her career.
Ribbon developments (= lines of buildings) extendedalong the moin roed.
Output may deviate from the average by as much as 30%.
Police found several bugging devices in the room.
All new cars are now fitted with these safety devices.
He measured the room using an ingenious new electronic device.
Thedevice consists of a large wheel mounted on a metal post.
The device worked exactly as Id hoped.
He behaved like Someone possessed by devils.
His strong leftwing views make him the devil incarnate to more ex.
The land is almost devoid of vegetation.
Ske devoted herself entirelyto writing.
I'ma great devateeof jazz.
Their single- minded devotion tothe careof the dying was admirable.
He was ‘mocked for hisdog-likedevotion to his boss.
He cared for his mother with great devotion.
The judge praised the fireSfightersfor their bravery and devation toduty.
She will be remembered for her selfless devotion tothe causeof the poor an object of devotion Thestatueof theemperor became an abject of devotion.
He devoured the food greedily.
The animal quickly devoured its prey.
There was a heavy dew this morning.
The sun had dried the early morning dew.
Drups of dew shoneon the grass.
Video games de- ‘mand great manual dexterity.
Idon't hove the dexterity for juggling.
With~ She handled thediscussion with dexterity.
Hewas diagnosed with leukaemia.
The doctor cannot give a diagnosis without knowing the full medical history.
Further tests have confirmed thediagnosis.
Patients may suffer from some of the symptoms years before diagnosis.
They are using new methods of diagnosis.
Drawa simplediogramof the leaf structure.
The trees will be planted at the points marked on the diagram.
Set the dial for the number of copies required.
It is possible to diol direct to many countries.
The government refusedta ngage in direct dialogue with the terrorists.
Managers arewilling to hold a dialogue with union leaders.
The head encouragesa climate of open dialogueamong the teachers.
They have agreed to resume their dialoguewith theteachers.
Inside, internal The tubes have an internal diameter of 2mm.
He used similar triangles to calculate the diameter of the earth.
In~Themirror is 2cm in diameter.
He jotted down observations on the animals' habits in hisfield diary.
Istarting keeping a diary when I was thirteen.
You decide who's going to start by throwing the dice.
You move forward according to the number on the dice.
The roll of the dice went against them.
We did a French dicta tion in class.
The teacher gave them a dictation.
Her secretary is very good ot taking dictation.
We had somevery difficult words in our dictation.
The gen erals established a military dictatorship.
They succeeded in overthrowing the fuscist dictatorship.
These men had all tived under dictatorship.
English/ French, French/English, etc.
One of their children died in infancy.
Her futher died tragically in a car crash.
Ithought Iwas going to die.
She should be allowed todie peacefuully.
The accident victim died from her injuries.
Hedied of a heart attack.
These buses run on diesel.
The diesel model is noisier than the petrol model.
People can fight infection more easily if they have an adequate diet.
It is important to eat a balanced diet.
They had to survive on a dietof insects and berries.
The animal's diet consists mainlyof grasses.
These animals live on a mainly vegetarian diet.
They were fed on a dietof rice and vegetables.
Crash diets arenot the bestwayto lose weight.
If you follow this diet, you're bound 10 lose weight.
Td love some chips, butPmonadiet.
The two approaches differ markedly Opinions differ widely on this issue.
Conditions of employment differ according (o the type of company you are working for.
Social organization differs significantly betuween the different groups.
His ideas difer little from those f his father.
The modelsdiffer in size and shape.
The two parties differ on all the major issues.
It didn't seem right that I should differ with him.
Inoticed a real difference in his attitude.
The new central heating has made an enormous difference to the house.
One tiny mistake when you're climbing could mean the diference betuween life and death.
Only an expert would know the difference between the male and the female.
The study explores the differences between the way girls and boys talk.
The questionnaire showed vast differences in what kind of product people want.
Our different attitudes to life reflect the differences in our backgrounds.
The difference lies in the way the fruitis prepared.
The difSerences in size arise from the amount of sunshine each ‘plant gets.
There's a big difference betuween reading about skiing and doing it yourself ~from He was very aware of his difference from the other children.
The difJerence in price is not very significant.
There is one key difference with the earlier version of the software.
The difference with this information service s that it's free.
If you want a holiday with a difference, come to Iceland.
There'sall thedfference in the warld betuween choosing to do something and being forced todo it.
The extra money will make a lot of difJference to us.
Just five minutes'exercise a day could make all the difference.
There's not much difference between baseball and softball.
If you decide you would preJer the more expensive model, you can bring this one back and pay the difference.
He hadn’t got quite enough money, but his aunt agreed to make up the diference.
He sold the car for more than he'd paid and pocketed the difference.
Ton wanted to leave late, so we split the differenceand left at noon.
This round of talks aims to resole theoutstanding differences between the fwo sides.
They have had some minor differences, butin general theygeton well ogether.
We're going to get the two sides together to see if they can't settle their differences.
Differences may arise when the young people do not have the same expectations as their parents.
Although the talks were generally successful, differences remain between the groups.
There were some differences as to howto deal with the crisis.
She and Luke hada difference of opinion over how muuch money they should spend.
Like any married couple, we haveour differences.
Human beings are different from other animals.
Their customs are very different (o urs.
It is not always possible to differentiate ‘etween the two diseases.
Serentiate this product from other similar ones difficult adj.
It Is getting moreand more difficult to find a job.
Thefog made driving very difficult.
Her disability ‘made taking care of the home and raising a family doubly difficult.
Birth rates are notoriously difficult to predict.
We had enormous difficulty in get ting hold of the right equipment.
English spelling presents special difficulties for foreign learners.
The games have various different levels of difficulty.
Among the difficulties encountered was a lack of cooperation on the part of the authorities.
Anyone experiencing difficulty with radio reception should call us on the new helpline.
Let me know if you haveany difficulties.
The scheme has run into serious difficulties.
Will if cause any difficulties i 1 g0 early? > Shels always making diffculties Jor herself.
The situation was fraught with difficulty.
Diffculties arise when people fuil to consult their colleagues.
The difficulty lies in identifying the precise nature of the problem.
Despiteall the difficulties, he still remains optimistic.
We could see that the swimmer was in difficulties.
We crossed the border without any difficulty.
Life i the ity was not without its difficulties.
She had difficulty in starting her car.
Shegave him a sharp dig in the ribs.
They were having a little dig at her ‘about the way she tells everybody else what 1o do.
The dig revealed the site of a Roman villa.
We'll have to dig quite deep to get at theroots.
The parent bird partially digests Jfood initscrop.
He has to avoid fat because his body can’t digest t.
She's got very poor digestion.
The num ber can ‘beup toeight digits long.
He remained quietly dignified indefeat.
She spoke (o him with quiet dignity.
These people have enormous dignity.
We all want to maintain our dignity in old age.
Being treated in the privacy of your own room gives you more dignity.
The awful thing about old age s losing your digrity.
Stavery destroys human dignity.
Keeping prisoners in ‘such dreadful conditions strips them of all dignity.
With as much dignity as he could muster; he left the room.
She was never one to stand on her dignity.
He clearly regarded manual work as beneat’ his dignity.
His aristocratic voice gives ‘him an air of dignity and power lacking In dignity We el that the way she was treated was lacking in dignity.
He hoped that he could change ‘his mind without loss of dignity.
She ‘had a strong sense of dignity.
He ‘needed away to retreat with his dignity intact.
This poses a difficult ditemma for teachers.
They were cought in a real dilemma.
The dilemma facing thecountry's allies was even more serious.
Inaithe~ Theminister is now in an impossibledilemma.
She faced a dilemma about whether to accept the offer or not.
Icouldn't seeany way out of thedilemma.
The fragrances are highly diluted.
Dilute the juice slightly with water.
In Theperfumes arediluted in vegetableoils.
Despite the unit's compact dimensions, there's still plenty of room for expansion.
Thefourth dimension, time, is also finite in extent.
In looking at population ageing we will consider fwo distinct dimensions.
Communication via the Internet glves an important international dimension to the project.
Her liness adds an extra dimension to the problem.
The affatr had a different dimension now.
The crisis acquired @ new dimension.
She could not be heard above thedin of the crowd.
Charles shouted above the din.
We dined in style in the hotel restaurant.
Dining out in attractive surroundings is oneof life's great pleasures.
Wedined on fresh local fish.
She sailed thedinghy across the bay.
Thedining room seats upto 60guests.
She rowed ashore in the dinghy.
We were treated to a slap-up meal with every kind of sea.
There was never much conversation at the dinner table in my family.
We didn't wash up the dinner things until the morning after.
The School dinner menu always includes a balance of food types.
The rugby club's annual dinner is this week.
We're going to at.
The former Olympic champion was invited to speak ata charity dinner.
They invited three couples to a dinner party at their house.
Share prices have taken a slightdip.
The road dipped steeply doun into the town.
Thesun dipped below the horizon.
Parents are advised to ‘have thelr children immunized againstdiphtheria.
The college affers the Higher National Diploma in computer studies.
The university awards diplomas in higher education.
The course leads to a diploma in psychiatric nursing.
Diploma holders have a far better chance of employment than those with no qualification.
Most students here are studying for a qualification at diploma level.
Anglo-French, European, Russian, etc.
Behind the scenes a lot of secret diplomacy was going on.
We must try and resolve this situation through diplomacy rather than conflict.
We need someone who has tact and diplomacy.
The way forward in this situation is by diplomacy and negotiation.
She handled the aukuward situation with her usual quiet diplomacy.
He served as adiplomat in Russia beforethe war.
Tax cuts have been directed primarily at the better-off.
He directed the torch straight in her face.
T'he machine directs light onto a special film.
We are directing our efforts towards helping young people.
He asked me some very direct questions.
Her mannercan be rather direct.
They were both going in the same direction.
Unfortunatels, we were going in the wrong direction.
Support came from an unexpected direction.
Turn the dial in a clockwise direction.
These figures may have to be revised in an upward direction.
When sailing, keep a constant check on changes in wind direction.
The wind had changed direction.
The convoy is moving in the direction of the capital.
While he was studying in Paris, his thinking sudden Iy veered off in a new direction.
He was hit by a lorry coming in the opposite direction.
She ‘glanced in his direction.
Look!” she said, pointing in the direction of the coast.
There aredifferent considerations, often pulling in different directions.
Thers was shriek of laughter from the direction of Saral’s room.
Let's approach the subject Jfrom a different direction.
The aircraft was flying ina northerly direction.
She followed the direction of his goze.
The blast sent debris flying in all direc tions.
The road was blocked in both directions.
People passed by without a glance in her direction.
The report gives a brief nod in the direction of green issues beforecoming down firmly on the side of the market.
The party must take a rew direction if it is to survive.
No clear direction in policy can be identified.
It is hord to know which direction the Church will take.
Ir's time to change direction and find a new job.
At least things aremoving in the right direction now.
The new law is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, but it doesn't go far enough.
The first step in this direction will be by way of discussion with the unions.
Do not let the discussion fragment into a desultory conversation with no clear direction.
Once again her life felt lacking in direction.
Weare looking for somebody with a clear senseof direction.
Let's stop and ask for directions.
We got directions to the hall from a man in the village.
You Just follow the directions on the packet.
In effective classrooms the teacher provided clear dlrection.
The monarch looks to the archbishop Jor spiritual direction.
All transport is under government direction.
The new workers need direction froma supervisor: The village is duenorth of Paris.
Thereserveisa little further south on the coast.
They have moved down south (= to the south of the conntry).
Onour way south we travelled through several small villages.
Brighton is south of London.
The farm lies 60 kilometres north-east of Cape Toun.
From Fort William drive north for a couple of miles.
The troops setoff north.
The rood continues west for 10miles.
Take the N1 motorway heading west from Bern.
When you reach the top of the hil turn north-east.
The kitchen window faces south.
The painting depicts the Grand Canal, Venice, looking north from the Rialto Bridge.
There are lakes in the north-east of Poland.
The wind is coming from the west.
Oxford isto the north-west of London.
Towards the north the woods turn into pine forests.
Don’t start anything without a clear directive from management.
Issue The EU issued a new drinking water directive.
All companies must comply with the new directive.
Into force A new EU directive on maternity leave will come into force next month.
The directive requires member states to designatesites of special scientific interest.
In accordance with althe~ They acted in accordance with the latest directive from Brussels.
The proposals are contained in a European directive on wild ‘birds.
Private heaith services will be allowed under thedirective.
Ifound the company’s name ina tradedirectory.
Narmes are listed alphabetically in the directory.
She brushed the loase dirt off her coat.
He had streaks of dirt all over hisface.
Lis shoes were coveredin dirt.
Theuwhite rug really shows the dirt.
Dirt had accumulated in thecorners of thewindows.
She just loves to dish the dirt tellpeople unkind/unpleasant things about sb).
The soot ‘had made everything dirty.
He's not frightened of getting his hands dirty (= doing physical work).
Everything intheroom was filthy dirty.
The accident left him badly disabled.
Lack of qualifications is an obvious disadvantage.
These requirements will have to be standardized §f some ‘banks are not to suffer a competitive disadvantoge.
Competition has its disadvantages.
The scheme's ‘advantages outwelgh the disadvantages.
Jeel at a disadvantage.
The fact that he didn't speak a forelgn language put him at @ disadvantage.
We were at a distinct disadvantage compared with children from richer familics.
Despite these disaduantages, many older people maintain anactive sociallife.
There aredisadvantages in using this treatment.
Each plan has its own advantages and disadvantages.
These social groups remain disadvantged.
Many people will be greatly disadvantaged by thenew tax system.
Iy with this policy.
When I pointed out that ft had been her idea in the first place.
Jack and Robert disagree about everything.
We disagree on this matter.
Ministers dis- ‘agreeover the scale of the changes.
It s difficult to disagree with the chair- ‘man on this point.
There is wide disagreement on this issue.
They were in disagreement about the move to Cambridge.
The things she said were always in disagreement, with the teacher or another member of the class.
She expressed disagreement with the government's policy.
This view is subjective and therefore open to disagreement.
Disagreementexists over the pattern of demand for coal.
He Shook his head in disagreement.
They had a major disagreement over who Should clean the car: ~among/amongst, ~as to There is considerable disagreement amang archacologists as 1 the age of the sculpture.
There is fundamental disagreement on these matters.
He had a disagreement with his girlfriend.
There are several areas of disagreement between the two governments.
Money was a constant source of disagreement.
There is plenty of room for disagreement in this controversial area.
He started the treatment and his symptoms disappeared overnight.
Her fatlier disappeared without trace when she was ten.
The plane suddenly just disappeared from the radar screen.
The sun disappeared behind a cloud.
Wildlife is fast disappearing from our countryside.
She watched until he had disappeared from view.
Modern farming practice has led to the virtual disappearance of this bird.
Investigate Essex police are investigating the mysterious disappearance of two young men.
The decision left them very disoppoined.
If you think Ill agree to that, then you're going to be sadly disap.
He seemed almast disappointed when I agreed 10 £o.
I'm disappointed about John not coming.
They'redisappointed at the result.
I'was slightly disappointed by her attitude.
He's disappointed in his daughter; with We're disappointed with the new car.
The film was terribly disappointing.
She ‘couldn't quite conceal the deep disappointment she fel.
His voice betrayed his disappointment.
He bit back his disappointment.
He feigned disappointment, Secretly, he was mightily relieved.
To avoid disappointment, we recommend you book your holiday early.
The scheme was doomed to disappointment.
He let his disap- ‘pointment shot.
Oxford but skirted round it.
Paul couldn’t hide his disappointment at not being asked (o the party.
Campaigners have voiced disappolrtment over the government's decision.
She's had a lot of dis- ‘appointments in the past.
This news has come asadisappointment to local business leaders.
The cancellation of the tour was a great dis- ‘appolntment for the many fans of the band.
It was @ big disappointment to us when she left.
The decision met with widespread publicdisapproval.
There was more than a note of disap provalin her voice.
To mark his disapprotal he refused to go to the wedding.
Her face registered her disapproval.
The students are showing their disapproval by refusing Lo attend lectures.
Even at this distance she could sense his disapproval.
Her lip curled in disapproval.
Harold noted the boy's earring with disapproval.
She was stiff with disapproval at thenation.
There was a chorus of disapproval from the crowd.
Seeing the look of disapproval on the doctor's face, I put out my cigarette.
Dr All gave a great sniff of disapproval.
He strongly disapproved of the way his daughter was behaving.
His personal life fell into disarray when his wife left him.
Our plans were thrown Into disarray by the rail strike.
In~ The meeting broke up indisarray.
Impending It seemed that nathing could prevent the impending disaster.
Everyone had the feeling that disaster was imminent.
One person’s mistakes can bring disaster to someone else.
The drought spelt econormic disaster for the country.
Independent analysts in the market predicted disaster.
If's courting disaster (0 g0 into the mountains without proper weatherproaf clothing.
There are many who have suffered personal disasters but managed ta rebuild their lives.
It was a miracle any of the passengers or crew survived theworst air disaster in Portugal for 20years.
The show ended in disaster when the tent collapsed.
Everything was going fine.
Then, without warning, disaster struck.
We could allsee that disaster Loomed for the company.
Only rescue workers areallowed into the disaster area.
In a disaster everyone needs 1o keep calm.
Any one of these nuclear plants may be a disaster waiting to happen.
In the aftermath of a disaster In the aftermath of the disaster people were 100 shocked togive a clear picture of what ‘had happened.
Letting her organize the party is a recipe for disaster (= sth that is likely to go badly wrong).
The play was a complete disaster from beginning to end.
Highrise buildings proved asocial disaster: disastrous adj.
The policy was absolutelydisastrous for the economy.
The president publiciy expressed his disbelief at what had happened.
My stortes were greeted with disbelief.
In~ We could only watch in disbelief as the car rolledinto thewater to your~Tomy horrified disbelief the ‘animal was running towards me.
Hilary shook her ‘head in disbeltef at the news.
The film version requires greater suspension of disbelief than the book.
I'vegot an old vinyl disc of her singing.
The Prokofiev sonata comes first on the disc.
He's in bed witha slipped disc.
She's stipped a disc.
These ideas have now been completely discarded.
Older managers have been discarded infavour of younger people.
She could clearly discern a figure walking up towards the house.
The difference between the two is readily discernible.
Her face was barely discernible n the gloom.
He was given an absolute discharge but banned from driving for 12 months.
He was found guilty and dishonourably discharged from the arms.
He was conditionally discharged after admitting thetheft.
She wasan ardent disciple of Freud.
He commanded them to go out and make disciples of all nations.
Discipline was too lax.
The teacher was unabie (0 maintain discipline.
They submitted (o the discipline imposed by their leaders.
The school was criticized for having very poor discipline.
Modern schools lack discipline.
The new headmaster tightened discipline in the school.
I's unfir (o dismiss somebody for a single breach of discipline.
The chancellor has stabilized the econ.
He'll never get anywhere working for himself—he's gotnodiscipline.
Students are to be tested on the three core disciplines: maths, English and science.
Wren did sociology emerge as a distinct.
They established psychology as an academic discipline.
There is a lack of communication ‘acrossdisciplines (= between teachers and studentsof different subjects).
Within a discipline there 'may bemare than one schoolof thought.
The university offers awiderange of disciplines.
He had not fully disclosed all his business dealings.
Members of Parliament are required to disclose all their financial interests.
Heailed todisclose all the information.
He became conscious of a growing discomfort.
Some of the patients complained of discomfort.
Not eating lateat night should help torelieve the discomyort.
In~ He appeared to be in great discomfort.
You should be able todrive without discomfortafter about two weeks.
The revelations caused some discomfort to the president.
Paula smiled, enjoying her sister's discomfort.
Public discontent with the economy remainedata high level.
The higher tox provoked widespread discontent_umong (ke poor.
Overcrowded_conditions Juelled discontent and fucilitated the spread of radical ideas.
The country was seething with discontent and the threat of revolution was real.
The peasanis expressed their discontent.
Thereforms failed tostemsocial discontent.
Dis content simmered and then came to a head with the nationalistprotests.
Pportsof growing discontent within the army.
The contrasts between Fichand poor nations are source of iscord.
There isa special discount for staff.
We offer a 5% cash discount for prompt payment.
They only give you a discount if you buy more than a.
It is important to negotiatea good discount and obtain books on approval.
Members are given a discount card which entitles them to 20% off.
Customers are allowed adiscount on orders over £500.
Smoking is actively discouraged in the universits.
We tried to discourage him from resigning.
Children are easily discouraged from reading.
We soon discovered we'd been mistaken.
She was surprised to discover he was perfectly copable around the Fouse.
It wasa terrible shock to discover the full extent of the problem.
It would be fascinating to discover more ‘about the town’s history.
There's great talent out there just waiting to be discovered.
New scientific discoveries are being made all the time.
Their work ted to some important medical discoveries.
Theremay be many unexpected treasures cwaiting discovery.
To tour Sri Lanka is to take ¢ voyage of discovery through a land of endless variety.
By telling lies he brougii discredit upon Parliament.
Your failure reflects nodiscredit upon you—you didyour best.
She brought the wholesystem intodiscredit.
Itdoes usgreat discredit to reat foreigners so badly.
His selfsh decision is greatly to his dis credit.
They wereadiscredit to their country.
She failed to notice the discrepancy between the name on thechequeand the name on the driving licence.
Discreparncies occurred betuween the written and electronic records.
In There were wide discrepancies in the evidence.
The school governors have cbsolute discretion over which pupils they admit.
The president used his executive discretion to ‘pardon the two men.
The police exercise discretion in the area of minor troffic offences.
They would like locat authorities to be given greater discretion as to how the money is spent.
Do you want me to do the job myself or hire a photographer?"Ileaveittoyour discretion.
Bai is granted at the discretion of the court.
There is no service charge and tipping is at your discretion.
We have discretion about how much tocharge.
She has considerablediscretion as to how the money Is spent.
This case calls for the utmost discretion.
This is confidential, but I know that I can rely on your discretion.
Workers must avoid discriminating on the grounds of raceor sex.
There is widespread discrimin.
Overt sex or race discrimination is illegal.
Levels of discrimination against recent immigrants are high.
Racist remarks by an.
Many disabled people suffer discrimination at work.
Discrimination by age is as vicious as discrimination by race.
Some firms practise discrimination in favour of older people.
I's time we ‘banned discrimination on the grounds of age.
Young children find it difficult to make fine discriminations.
She showed great discrimination in rejecting the poor quality teas.
Tre plan was discussed in great defail.
This problem has never been discussed openly before.
Pupils should be encouraged todiscuss critically the information they are given.
The committee meets regularly to discuss these issues.
He refised to discuss it with me.
I'mnot prepared todiscuss this on the phone.
The propasals have been widely discussed in the media.
The plan was agreed without further discussion.
After the lecture there will be an opportunity for informal discussion.
Women were asked to take part in small group discussions.
The two governments areto hold discussions on the border issue.
These lntest Jfindings have generated a lot of discussion of the moral issues involved.
The discussion was led by the director of marketing.
The issue should come up for discussion at the climate change conference.
The topic must be opened up for general discussion.
We need to open up a discussion on the basic aspects of the theory.
Let us sum up the dis.
The government has broken off discussions with the unions.
We decided to end the discussion before it got out of hand.
Discussion should be followed up by a written report.
Discussions have taken place between the to leaders.
Discussion centred on the contribution different groups would make to the project.
An intense discussion broke out about the importance of intuition.
Adam raised the issue of multimedia applications and much useJful discussion ensued.
During our discussions we raised many issues that need deeper consideration.
The company had been in ciscussion with companies in Austris, Itoly and Greece.
Plans for a new bypass are stll under discussion.
Discussion continues as to the relative merits of thedifferent schemes.
We can use the draft document as a basis for discussion.
The group provides a forum for the discussion of ideas.
The outcome of the discussions isa decision (o proceed with Phase 20f the pro- ‘gramme.
She did not hesitate to express the disdain thot she felt.
Judges sometimes show great disdain for the law.
Traditionalists look upon the changes with disdain.
She turned her head away in disdain.
He hasanaristocratic disdain for money.
He has a serious lung disease.
She got a rare liver disease when she was only twenty.
Children are still dying in their millions from preventable diseases.
Such unhygienlc practices spread disease.
The disease is transmitted by mosquitoes.
The government must take action to fight this deadly disease.
I's better io prevent disease by ensuring a clean water supply.
The disease has been eradicated from the world.
The disease has Killed 500 people so fur this year.
Sufferers from Lzheimer's disease can’t cope at home.
Tobacco lowers the body's resistance to disease.
He was badly disfigured by the accident.
Their father fell into disgraceand lost his business.
His crime had brought disgrace upon his whole family.
She was sent home from the Olympics in disgrace.
He's in disgrace for having left his room ina mess.
Thestate of our hospitals is a national disgrace.
The flthy streets area disgrace t the town.
She adopted an elaborate disguise to help her pass through the town unrecognized.
We all saw through his dis- ‘guise immediately.
In~Thestar travelled in disguise.
She was cleverly disguised as apolicewoman.
You cannot disguise what you are doing from your famils.
He made no attempt to disguise his liking for her.
In her speech she made several thinly disguised atlackson the president.
Mr Haynes shook his ‘head in obviousdisgust and walked off.
Decent people were filled with disgust for whoever committed the crimes.
In He threw her one ook, then turned awayindisgust.
Marion threw down the book in disgust.
They both looked with disgust at the men.
People are showing their disgust with the existing regime.
He gavea snort of disgust.
Much to his disgust, he found himself sharingacarriage with anoisy young famils disgusted adj.
She looked visibly disgusted.
I'mquitedisgusied at the way he's ireated you.
Twas absolutely disgusted by the whole business.
Ifind his behaviour disgusting.
Arrange the chicken and salad in a serving dish.
The dirty breakfast dishes were stillin the sink when we got home.
Hedried thedishes and put them auay.
Serue one or two main dishes with a choice of salads and nibbles.
The national ‘bigos—hunter’s stew.
Goulash is a meat dish.
Kedgeree makes a wonderful supper dish.
Ske cooked us a delicious French dish with pork and tomatoes.
They sampled all the local dishes.
What they are doing is not considered dishonest.
It wastes energy to run the dishwasher half empty.
Are these glasses dishwasher safe? disillusioned adj.
If the king had ‘haped for peace, he was to be sadly disiltusioned.
They felt bitter and disillusioned by the deci sion.
Later in life he grew rther disiltusioned with communism.
Theplanecompletely disintegrated an impact.
The social fabric of this country is lowly disintegrating.
The bag had already ‘begun todisintegrate.
Into The country has disintegrated into separate states.
He was a lawyer who had disintegrated under thestrain.
Jeat led to thediisintegration of the empire.
The master disk can be duplicated as many times os required.
Insert the disk into the drive slot.
The computer reads the disk.
Pl capy the disk intoa/ile.
The program is set up so that you automatically save (o disk every 15 minutes.
Save the document to disk before closing it.
Theinformation can besaved ona disk.
If you wipe that old disk, we can use itagain.
The records will bestored on the computer’s hard disk.
The disk contains the program you'll need.
The information required can then be retrieved from disk.
Yousimply download the pages to disk.
Several cammittee members expressed their intense disltke of the chatrman.
She threw hima look of active dislike.
He glancedat her with cold dislike.
Shefeltdislike rather than sympathy as he told his stors.
My grandfather has a ‘greatdislike of long hair on boys.
Ttook an instant disTike to my new colteague.
Sonia stared at me with dislike and distrust.
She had a deep dislike for Robert's wife.
She disliked her boss intensels.
He simply disliked warking with committees and avoided it whenever possible.
There are very few foods that I actively dislike.
The new teacher was universally disliked.
Herfriends accused her of disloyalty.
It was a really dismal day.
Last year's results were fairlydismal.
The government has expressed ‘deep dismay’ at police violence against protesters.
It was impossible to hide my dismay ot whot I had seen.
The laws on hunting cause dismay to many animat lovers.
The news was greeted with widespread dismay.
In~ Louise stared at the torn letter in dismay.
Brady made no secret of his dismay over his treatment.
He dismissed her suggestion out of hand.
Children'’s fears should never be dismissed lightly.
Shecantemptuously dismissed their complainis.
It was not easy to dismiss the matter from his thoughts.
She dismissed their arguments as irrelevant.
Shetried to dismiss theidea from her mind.
The court ruled that s Hill had been unfairly dismissed.
He was summarily dismissed from his job.
She won her claim for constructive dismissal because she had been pressured into resigning.
Crash victims arecalling for the dismissalof the coach driver.
Trey were warned thatthey risked dismissal if the strike continued.
Cooke, who was with the firm 30 years, claims unfair dismissal.
She is now faced with dismissal on the grounds of misconduct.
Her manner was coldly dismissive.
She was very dismissive of his achievements.
He called for a campaign of civil disobedience if the president did not honour the election results.
His behaviour was seenasanother act of disobedience.
The country was thrown intodisorder by the strikes.
There have been outbreaks of serious publicdisorder.
She suffers from arare blood disorder.
Thegreat disparity between the teams did not make for an entertaining game.
The populadon in thisarea s quite widely dispersed.
The crowd slowly beganto disperse.
The locomotive Is normally kept on static display in the National Railuay Museum.
Iife was like aboard a satling ship.
Examples of her work will go on permanent display in the ‘new museum.
The birds were put on display at the zoological saciety.
The display illustrates the traditional industries of the town.
On display are earrings, necklaces ‘and bracelets made from jade, amber and amethyst.
The sun set in a pyrotechnic display that burnt up the whole western sky.
The male performs @ magnificent courtship display.
They put on a spectacular firework display.
The crowd was treated toan impressivedisplay of power tennis.
They gave a virtuoso display of disco dancing.
Members of the community closed ranks in an impressive display of unity.
Despite his outward dis- ‘play of friendiliness, Isensed he was concealing something.
There may be specific events which trigger aggressive displays in your dog.
His football trophies were prominently displayed in the kitchen.
She proudly displayed her degree certificate to her parents.
He saw the English victory asa sign of divine displeasure.
His factless words had incurred his father's deep displeasure.
He made no attempt tohide hisdispleasure.
The device was defused byarmy bombdisposal experts.
Hewill havea car at his disposal for the whole month.
Well, P'm at your disposal (=1 am ready to help you in any way I can).
She seems favaurably disposed to the move.
These dogs show a very sociable disposition.
The punishment was grossly disproportionate tothecrime.
There is considerable dispute cver the precise definition of ‘socialclass asa term.
The incident sparked off @ major dispute between the two countries.
There were lengthy internal disputes ‘between the two wings of the parts.
Governments are often drawn into disputes ‘about matters of public taste and decenc.
They became embroiled inadispute with their neighbours.
Police have difficulties in dealing with domestic disputes.
The purpose of industrial tribunals is toadjudicatedisputes between employers and employees.
His theories are open to dispute (= can be dis- ‘agreed with).
No one could remember exactly how the dispute had arisen.
The matter was settled beyond dispute by the court judgment (= it could no longer be argued about).
The actual sum of compensation due ts still in dispute (= being argued about).
The employees ‘have been in dispute with management for three weeks.
There is no dispute as (0 the fucts.
Theeffectivenessof this treatment s still hotly disputed.
No one can dispute the Jactthat men still hold the majority of public offices.
With a fine disregard for geograph, she decided to start her journeyto Paris by sailing to the Hook of Holland.
He showed complete disregard for the feelings of his family.
Much of the old building was still in disrepair.
He had @ vaguely disreputable oppearance.
Theold system had fallen intodisrepute.
The players’ behaviour on thefield is likely to bring the game into disrepute.
In~This theory is now in disrepute.
She felt he had total disrespect for women.
The new manager showed a healthy disres.
No disrespect intended sir; it was just a joke.
The bad weather has seriouslydisrupted supplies of food.
The attacks are designed to disrupt plans for the elections.
The city centre suffered some disruption due to a bomb scare.
The bombing campaign caused massive disruption to industry.
Long working hours are very disruptive 0 home life.
Pay cuts have led to widespread dissatisfaction.
She expressed deep dissatisfaction at the way the interview had been conducted.
There is growing dissatisfaction with the currentstyleof management.
The decision left us feeling deeplydissatisfied.
She's very dissatisfied with her current job.
He would brook no serious dissent.
Ical, religious Political dissent is not tolerated.
There are many ways of expressing dissent.
The regime ruthlessly suppresses alldissent.
Church ~from His dissent from his family's religicus belicfs causeda lotof illfeeling, PHRASES a voice of dissent In the early 1968, the volcesof dissent began torise.
Students can either do a dissertation or take part in a practical proJect.
He wrote his Master's dissertation onrats.
This violence will do a grave disservice to their cause.
His views are not dissimilar from those of the Health Minister.
The way of life here is notaltogether dissimilar to that in other parts of Europe.
The tablet hasn't dissolved completely set.
The limestone has simply dissolved away.
Their marriage was formally dissolved last year.
The towr: is a conslderable disiance from the coast.
The people travel vast distances to find food.
The cat sat and watched us froma safe distance.
Allow for greater braking distances whenpullinga loaded trailer.
These immigrants face problems of geographical distance and cultural isolation.
The young birds were soon lying distances of 200 eetor more.
Nobody thought he would last 15 rounds but e went the full distance.
Judge It svery difficult to judge distances in the desert.
When launching a kick it is essen tialto be at the correct distance from your opponent.
The toun issituated at a distance of twenty miles from Oxford.
Shefollowed them ata discreet distance.
Visitors can only view the painting from a distance of three metres.
The sound can be heard over a distance of more than five miles.
The house Is a short distance away from the bus station.
The shops are within walking distance.
The cat was now within striking distance of the duck.
We came within spitting distance of winning thecup.
At adistance it s difficult to make out the detail on the building.
We admired the palace from a distance.
In the distance was a small village.
She was warned to Keep her distance from Charles if she didn’t want to get hurt.
Sociologists must maintain critical distance from theideas of society at any particular time.
Hefelta sense of distance from the others.
The sound of theen- ‘gine was growing more and more distant.
It was only a few miles away but it seemed unimaginably distant.
The stars are more distant from the earth than thesun.
Even his children found him strangely distant and impersonal.
She regarded the chtld with evident distaste.
He couldn't conceal the deep distaste that he elt for may of their customs.
She wrinkled her nose in mock distaste.
Jim looked with distaste at the cockroach in his distinguish soup.
He couldn’t hide his distaste at having to sleep in such a filthy room.
Joe had a profound distaste for violence.
It is necessary 1o keep these two issuesdistinct.
Political pouer should be regarded as analytically distinct from economic power.
She was studying lung cancer, as distinct from other types of cancer.
She draws an important distinction between the different Kinds of iliness.
We can see a sharp distinction betuween ambition and greed.
Cultural distinctions lie at the heartof these issues.
All groups are entitled to this money without distinction (= without a difference being made between them).
Wearing the county tie was a mark of modest sociel distinction.
Ste achieved distinction in several fields of scholarship.
She isa historian of great distinction.
Heserved with distinction in the First World War: distinctive ad.
The adult can be readily distinguished by its orange bill.
It is important to distinguish between causeand effect.
She could not distinguish one child from another: distinguishable adj.
The animal is eastly distinguishable by the black stripes above its eve.
The male bird is barely distinguishablefrom the female.
He was accused of grossly distorting the facts.
The wrong chemical balance con cause severe distortion of the photographic lmage.
His report was attacked as a gross distortionof the truth.
If's casy to get distracted when you're studying.
She seemed stightly distracted, as if something was worrying her.
Luke looked momentarily distracted.
She worked hard all morning, without distraction.
Work was a welcome distractionfrom ‘her probtems at home.
My kids driveme to distractionat times.
She sounded absolutely distraught.
Weeks after the accidentsheremained distraught.
His mather's death left him utterly distraught.
They wereterribiy distraughtat the news of his accident.
The causes of social distress includeinadequate housing.
The animals suffer great pain and distress when hunted.
She seemed catm and showed no signs of disfress.
He tried to conceal his distress, but the tremor in his voice was unmistakable.
In~The child was clearly in distress.
He dropped out of college, to his family's distress.
The president ssued a statement expressing her distress over the affoir PHRASES adamsel in distress medieval ballads abor aknight saving a damsel in distress a source of distres Griefover ageing is a source of distressto men and women.
Lfound the story deeply distressing.
The divorce was extremely distressing for the children.
The leaflets have been widely distributed.
We distributed the money equally among the team members.
Wealth is not evenly distributed ‘betuween age groups.
Smokers were randomly distributed in the sample interviewed.
After appiying the cream, comb through to ensure even distribution.
The country was noted for its uneven distribution of land resources.
Fish Ppopulations assume highly localized distributions within ‘each river.
The engine is mounted in the middle to achieve a more even weight distritution.
Radiology was used to determine the distribution of the discase.
These birds have wide geographical distribution.
Qs within the population show a normal distribution.
Animal herds may Jform in response to the distribution patterns of food.
The document contains sensitive information ‘and is not suitble for free (= unrestricted) distribution.
The previously free (= not paid for) distribution of text ‘books will now be confined to students who are needy.
Our catalogue lists all our books that are available for general distribution.
Roads are used Jfor local distribution of goods.
The company is to hanlle the distribution of the product in Europe.
Her company has signed a non-exclusive distribution agreement.
We have many distribution channels for our soft ware, including electronic _distribution.
The company wants to invest in new distribution facilities.
The company has decided to use Belfast asits distribution base.
The company has manuJfacturing or distribution operations in 33 countries world wide.
There are savings to bemade where retailers are bypassed in the chain of distribution.
These are company reserves available for distribution as the direct.
The promissory notes were purchased for distribution to investors.
Third party distributors are used to distribute the product in areas where the group does not have offices.
We are the primary distributor of the system in France.
We have been appointed sole UK distributor of a number of Hungarian wines.
We will act as the exclusive distributor for these Russian goods to the world market.
You can get the book through your local distributor.
Fire crews from all thesurrounding districts helped tofight the fires in thecity.
Everycity hasits central businessdistrict.
He has been transJerredtoa hospitat in a different health district.
Their district stretches ‘nearly 150miles, from the mountains to the sea.
Redrawing district boundaries would change the election results.
The hospital is only responsible Jfor patients within its own district.
She hasa healthy distrustof door-to-door salesmen.
The many policy changes have created growing dis trust among employees.
Great efforts were ‘made to overcome public distrust.
Nonconformists retatned a deep distrust of thelr Anglican neighbours.
The trafJic causes serious disturbance to residents.
She moved the nest very carefully to prevent disturbance tothe birds.
Buildings should create minimum disturbance to the environment.
Thedecision led toserious disturbances in all the country's main cities.
He was arrested and charged with causing a disturbance in a public place.
An influx of refugees hos triggered off disturbances.
Troops were brought in to put down the disturbance.
Several people were injured during a disturbance in the capitol city.
There had been violent disturbances among the prisoners.
Mary of our patients are severely disturbed.
Ifel oddly disturbed by the incident.
The workforce has shrunk to less than a thousand and much of the plant is in disuse.
Her muscles had become weak through disuse.
The drain- ‘agesystem consisted of a few open ditches to fucilitate runoff.
The plane went into a steep dive.
The pilot seemed to be having difficulty in pullingoutof the dive.
His acting career took a nosedive and he turned to drink Jor solace.
She made a running dive io get across thecrevasse.
She made a dive for the door.
Hetookadive in the penaltyarea and won his team a con troversial penalty.
The market is volatileand profits could take a dive.
There would be a dive for the bar as soon as the show finished.
She dived from the top diving board.
Hedived head frst into the water.
Greece was togo diving.
The plane suddenly dived from 10000 Jeet 105 000.
He dived headlong into the ditch.
This country’s interests diverge considerablyfrom those of other European countries.
The pilot set the aircraft up for a diversion to the nearest suitable olrfield.
The road will ‘beclosed for two days; diversions have been signposted.
The main road is ‘now closed and diversions are in operation.
The fire was started to create a diversion, allowing some prisoners to escape.
The cinema provided a welcome diversion from camp routine.
The party would makea pleasant diversion in his rother dull social lfe.
There is need for greater diversity and choice in education.
Our party believes in encouraging cultural diversity, not division.
The producer was under pressureto maintain diversity in hisoutput.
Tyrennies do not allow di versityand disagreement.
There isawide diversity of views on this subject.
The leader’s speech aimed to close the embarrassing divide in party ranks.
This report s divided broadly intotwo parts.
Railway enthusiasts divide neatly into two groups.
The country s divided up into nine regions.
The children divided into three teams.
The money was divided equally ‘among his sons.
They divided their time between London and their country cottage.
This issue has bitterly divided the communily.
Cabinet min isters were deeply divided on the issue.
Investors will still pay tox on their forelgn shere dividends.
The company hos not yet declared its dividends for this year.
The interim dividend is maintained at 2.
During that time, dividends werecutor passed (~ not paid) ‘and therewere plenty of closures.
The dividend is up 10.
The dividend should Jumptosp.
July 1, is reduced to Ip.
They have announced the quarterly dividend on the shares.
Her hard work paid dividends when she won the school dancing competition.
The company reaped rich dividends withits new strategy for peckeging holidays.
Thechain's investment in newstores is bringing dividends in new customers.
The crowd enjoyed diving display before the swimming races.
Infinitely He crgued that all matter wos infinitely divisible.
Twelve isdivisible by four into Plants re divisible into three main groups.
His will detailed his assets and gave instructions for their division cmong his children.
In selling there is a broad division into directand indirect methods.
There are sharp divisions within the party over the privatization of the railweys.
The prime minister's speech will attempt to heal divisions within his party.
There are reports of serious divisions among senior party members.
He's now playing footbull in the higher divisions.
They compete in the senior division of thechess league.
He belietes that unemployment is socially divisive and s leading to the creation of an underclass.
She filed for divorce in 1996.
She watched her parents go through an acrimontous divorce.
These days divorce is rarely contested.
Over 50 000 divorces were granted last year.
An increasing number of marriages end in divorce.
He is waiting for the divorce to come through before he remarries.
The divorce ratehas been growing steadily since 1971.
He cited adultery as grounds or divorce.
The ship is in dock for repairs.
She was in the dock on charges of attempted fraud.
In, and upin, land in Afer a nightof drunken revelry they ended up in the dock.
The defendant stood in the dock.
You should register with a doctor as soon as possible.
We called the doctor immediately.
For mare verbs see note.
She's doing a doctorate in ancient histor.
He's completed his doctorate on Victorian sexuality.
The ap- ‘plicants all have doctorates from good universities.
He practises as a clinical psychologist.
Doyou havea family doctor? need~ ‘She took good care of her teeth and never needed dentist.
Wha's the best way to find a therapist? consult, goto, see, visit~ Ithink youought to seea psychologist.
The doctor will see you now.
Heis being treated by the physiotherapist.
The optician has advised that I wear contact lenses.
The psychiatrist prescribed anti-depressans.
They wereall committed to the doctrineof social equality.
She reJected the traditional Christian doctrines.
Thompson reconciled the doctrine of heat with that of mechanics in 1851.
Their doctrine allows the useof violence.
In~ The Church welcomed all who were considered sound in doctrine.
This statement must be understood in the context of the entire document.
The original document has been lost or destroyed.
Please sign the enclosed document and return it to me.
Documents will be available at the news conference.
Keep your travel documents in a secure place.
He has promised to posta formal offer document to shareholders by Monday.
Copiesaf the relevant documents must be iled atcourt.
Supporting documents must be submittedto the supervisory authority.
He was unable to produce the document that he claimed would prove his case.
Gohrough thedocument checking Jorerrors.
The relevant docu- ‘ments are enclosed for your information.
The document says they are against tax rebates.
The document is written in Chinese.
No other genuine document exists.
The document is dated 775.
According to leaked cabinet documents, no compensation would be patd.
In afthe~ He particularly criticized the terminology in the document.
Highlight a passage in the active document and click on the print icon.
Scroll through the document using the slider bar on.
To create a new document, select New from the File menu.
Save the document before closing.
Send and receive documents a the click of a butian.
Cut and paste is used to mave text to a new place tn the document.
She has made a television documentary on poverty in our cities.
There were some interesting intervieis in the documentary.
The lady was kissing a little lop dog.
Sniffer dogs were used to find the drugs.
The team wanded to prove that they were top dogs in the region.
The dog’s owner was Jined £500 and banned from keeping dogs for five years.
These dogs have been bred to work as guide dogs for the biind.
He's trained his dog to sit on the back of his bike.
We didn't want puppies so we had the dog neutered.
The dog barked loudly at the stranger.
The litile dogs were yapping at my ankles.
The dog bounded uptomeand started licking my hand.
Straydogs roamed the streets at night.
The dag chewed up one of my shoes ©Adogwas gnawing atan old boe.
The dog was scratching at the door (o be let in.
Owners wha allow their dogs 1o foul the foot- ‘path witt be fined.
The dog warden rounds up stray dogs and takes them to the dog pound untilclaimed.
Races have been held at this dog track for seventy years.
The newspaper sceks ta be Independent of political dogma.
People are beginning to question the old dogmas.
She lost her job and had to claim dole.
As soon as he was made redundant, hesigned on thedole.
The factory closure will mean another few hundred people drawing the dole.
School leavers were Joining the dole queue everyday.
Many had come off the dole and set up their own small businesses.
She was on the dole for three years before she gota job.
The charity has received over $I0million in dollar noun donatians.
Register a domain name if you want peaple to find your website.
This information is all in the public domain.
Thesearimals areanly partly domesticated.
He is thorotghly domesticated and cooks a delicious chicken casserole.
The firm soon achieved complete dominance in the marketplace.
The firm s determined to maintain dominance in the market.
Ex-coloniat countries began 1o chatlenge the culturat dominance of Europe.
In black American domirance in heavyweight boxing ~ over He asserted his dominance over the other partymembers, dominant adj.
She completely dom inated the conversation.
His work increasingly dominates hislife.
They achieved political domination of the area.
The company has struggled to maintain its domination in the marketplace.
The country came under foreign domination.
The country longs to be free of colonial domination.
The country s still under foreign domination.
The Pprojectisfunded by public donation.
The operation will go ahead assoon asa suitable donor can be found.
Donor organs are constantly required for transplantoperations.
Japan has been one of the coun: iry's biggest aid donors.
Sth Donors pledged a totalof $1 000 million n relief aid.
DoOM spell Fuel shortages spelt the doom of such huge gas guzzling cars.
As I approached the exam room, 1 had a feeling of impending doom.
The species was doomed to extinction.
The praject was doomed to failure from the start.
The door was half- ‘open when we got there.
The inner door leads to the safe and is always locked after 5 m.
All externat doors should be bolted fop and bottom.
She had trouble pushing the heavy door apen.
Goalong the corridor and through the double doors.
She pushed her way through the swing doors.
He flung the door apen and caught them stuffing a document back into a_briefcase.
He pulled the door to.
He arrived ‘home to find the door barred.
Remember to bolt the door before you go to bed.
He came in the side door.
Go and answer the door (= open the door to sbwho has knocked on it).
They had to break the door down to get into the Slat.
The door burst open anda little boy ran in.
The car drove off with its rear door flapping open.
The door stood ajar so Icould see narrow section of the room.
This door leads tomy bedroom.
The door opens ontoa sunnyterrace.
There's someone at the door.
In the ~ He stood In the door for several minutes before deciding whether he'd stay.
He looked through the door to make sure the children were oil right.
He ‘banged the front door behind him as he lef.
She popped her head through the door to say goodbye.
He refusedto answer the doorbell.
Fing, and went to see who was there.
Wesheltered ina shop doortway.
We passed through the doorway and found ourselves ina walled garden.
She was disqualified from competing for a year after failing a dopetest.
Always take the correctdosage.
The film also contains a hefty dose of comedy.
The nurse will administer the correct dose.
She needs to be given a daily dose of themedicine.
Our profits have more than doubled this year.
The village has approximately doubled in size since 1960.
Without the slightest doubt this is a remarkable exhibition.
He made clear ‘his oun private doubts about it.
His failure to appear raises serlous doubts asto his reliability.
The announcement dispelled any doubts as to the prince’s intentions.
Fer recordof dismissals castsdoubton her ability to hold down Job.
Into, throw sth into The proposed develop- ‘ment has been thrown into doubt by the decision.
Their honesty is open to doubt.
Doubts hevearisen over the viability of the schedule.
Considerable doubt exists as 1o the precise origin of this custom.
From the start, doubts surrounded herclaim to be the missing heiress.
The evidence proves beyond doubt that he is innocent.
The arrangements for the eventstill seemed to be in doubt.
If in doubt, consult your docior: without (a)~ She is without a doubt the best tennis Dplayer I knou.
Some committee members still harboured doubts about the plarns.
This proves withouta shadow of doubt that we were right.
They say they'll be here on time, butI have my doubts about that.
Lee privately doubted the truth of this statement.
Eric was far from sureand Marion looked doubtful.
Even if we could go, which is highly doubtful, John wouldn’t be able tocome with us.
Turn thedough out ontoa lightly floured surface.
The failure of this scheme contributed to her eventual dounfall.
The moventen’s downfall came with thefailed coup d'état.
His greed was eventually his downfall.
In~Wegot caught ina torrential downpour.
The building industry is experiencing a severe downturn in its work load.
The 19905 witnessed a sharp dounturn in the party's fortunes.
His family hoped that his bride would bring a largedowry.
She had a little doze after lunch.
Idozed fiully for a few hours.
She produced an initial draft of her plans.
The preliminary draft of the agreement has been approved.
In althe ~ These detalls were not included in the preliminarydraft.
In draft form The document is still in draft form.
Some of the clauses in the contract had been very poorly drafted.
They were busy laging the drains for the new houses.
These losses have been a major drain on the company's resaurces.
Remove the artichokes, drain thoroughly and allow to cool.
His voice was utterly drained of emotion.
Sue felt exhausted and emotionally drained.
Millions follow this hospital drama twice @ wee.
It {s very difficult to write good drama.
The actor was involved in a real-life drama when he was held up a: gunpoint last night.
Theargument addeda touch of drama to anotherwise dulldas.
The afternoon was full of drama and excitement.
Her entrance was accompanied by sultably dramaticmusic.
Some silk fabrics will drape beautifully.
He sat with his arm draped casually around her shoulders.
The body was draped inablanket.
Fit draught excluders to the bottoms of door.
He draws vers well.
The blinds were partly drawn.
She drew back the curtains and let the sunlight in.
The project enables students todraw together their knowledge, skills and experience.
She drew me onto the balcony out of He drew the cork out of the bottl.
Irresistibly Her gaze was drawn irresistibly to the scene outside.
The scheme has drawn tnterest from locol businessmen.
We asked the surfing champion what first drew him to thesport.
The novetist draws heauily on ker personalexperiences.
Make sure the controct is properly drotwn up.
This strategy has its drawbacks.
The system suffers from two major drawbacks.
Bad weather was the main drawback to camping in the far north.
The one big drawback with the planned scheme was its high cost.
She ‘pulled open the second drawer down to find the money had gone.
He pushed the drawer shut with a bang.
She reached into the drawer and found the key to the safe.
He earned money modellingfor lifedrawing classes.
He made a drowing of howthe Roman villa must have looked.
The drawing shous the Market Square.
These days, designers spend more time at the compuer than at the drawing board.
The door opened onto a courtyard, as shown in thedrawing.
Howdy, pardner, he said in his stow Texan drawl.
She spoke withsoft Southern drawl.
Come in,’ he drawledsoftly.
Her greatest dread was that she would lose her job.
He had a dread of hospitals.
He lived in constant dread that one day he might be Sound out.
After her shoplifting spree she lived inmortaldread of being found out.
He had aluays dreaded being singled out.
Ifeel really dreadful about letting you down.
To be honest, her singing was quitedreadful.
She fell asieep and dreamed strange dreams.
In her dream, she was on board a ship heading for America.
Her biggest dream was to becomea singer.
His plans to travel the world now seemed likea distant drear.
Peaceno longer seemed an impossible dream.
She ‘had this romantic dream of living in a windmill.
At last his dreams were fulfilled.
The injury shattered her dream of running in the Olym pics.
World Cup place alive.
He put all his eflrts into making his dream of a united country come true.
Their dream turned info a ‘nightmare as the cruiseship began to sink.
After Betty retired, sheand her husband designed and built their dream ‘house.
The government is living ina dream world if they thinkvoters will agree to higher taxes.
They achieved a success beyond their wildest dreams.
Their holiday in the Bahamas was a dream come true.
As a child she always dreamt of working with animals.
I'd actually get the job.
People have long dream of an egalitarian sociey.
Just, only It was the kind of trip most of us cananlydream about.
She hitched up her long dress so it wouldn’t drag in the mud.
She sat down and smoothed herdress over her legs.
In a/the~ Sheappeared inaslinky satin dress.
He was wearing traditional Scottish dress.
Theclub hasastrict dress code.
He's got poor dress sense.
He dressed cargfully in the broun suit he had beenmarried in.
She lay down on her bed, fully dressed.
She got dressed quickls.
Immaculately, impeccably, neatly, nicely, smartly, well Susan always dresses very elegantly.
She was determined to be the best dressed woman at the wedding.
The twins were dressed identically.
The women were all dressed in blue skirtsand white blouses.
Clean the wound andputonajreshdressing.
As the strike went on, there was a gradual drift back to work.
Ilost the driftof what she was saying.
Coldand hungry, they drifted helplessly towards the Arctic.
The boat drifted slowly downstream.
Voices drifted up through the floorboards.
He allowed his thoughts todrift back t his conversation with Carre.
He spent the day drifting aimlessty about the house.
She drifted acrass the room to where we were standing.
She began to drift between sleep and wakefulness.
We seem to be drifting away from the point.
Hedrifted into teaching, but never really enjoyed it.
You will be offered a welcome drink on arrival at the hotel.
We were enjoying a leisurely drink before dinner.
Weordered a roundof drinks while waiting fora table.
I'll just drink my drink then we can go.
She had a hot drink and went to bed.
He knocked back his drink in one go and ordered another one.
He took a drink of his beer and sat down.
He poured himself a stiff drink 1o calm his nerves.
The robbers spiked his drink before taking his wallet and passport.
Her money problems drove her fo drink (= made her start drinking a 1ot of alcohol).
After hiswifedied, he turned todrink.
We've been invited to a drinksparty.
She took a bottle Jfrom the drinks cabinet.
She suspected her boss ‘hada drink problem.
Tl have a drinkof milk, please.
He filled a cup with water and drank it down in onegulp.
Drink up, and let's go home.
Goand get yourself something to eat and drink.
He's been drinking heavily since he lost his job.
One way of persuading people to drink sensibly is to provide good-tasting alternatives with less alcorol.
She had been drinking steadily since the early morning.
Simon was drinking like a fish that evening.
This liver condition is common in heavy drinkers.
She isasocial drinker only—she never drinks athome.
I'mnota big tea drinker.
His doctor had advisec him to limit hisdrinking.
Drips ellfrom theroof of the cave.
Hewas takenoff his drip lastnight.
It's a pleasant drive to the coast.
All my family live within an hour's drive.
The lakes are only a short driveaway.
Left-hand drive cars make driving in Britain difficult.
There was a car Parked on the drive.
He lacks the competitive drive needed to succeed.
We're going to launch a big recruitment drive in the autumn.
Cole scored with a thunderous left-foot drive.
She drove quickly back to the office.
He was arrested for driving recklessly.
He was killed by a drunken driver.
She was charged with reckless driving.
Police stopped 30 motarists for drink driving on New Year's Eve.
He was bannedfrom driving for sixmonths after failinga breath test.
There wasn't enoush evidence for a dangerous driving charge.
She was given a large fine anda two-year driving ban.
Light drizzle fell all afternoon.
In/through althe ~ We walked home through the drizzle.
The planes flew overhead with & low drone.
The restaurant has suffered big drop intrade.
Theglutof coffee led to a sharp drop in prices.
The cliff plunged ina sheer dropdown to the beach.
Great drops of rain started tofall.
Largedrops of sweat rolled down her face.
He saw Emma and promptly dropped his tray of drinks.
His arms dropped uselessly to his sides.
She smiled and let her eyes drop again.
Into, onto, to He dropped lightly down onto the lawn beneath.
PrRASES drop like a stone (fgurative) Her heart dropped likea stoneat this news.
The price of oil has dropped significantly.
Sales are likely to dropfurther.
The price has dropped by 15 per cent.
The num- ‘ber of children in the class has dropped from 2510 16.
Into'to/towards The land dropped steeply away intoa smallvalley.
He has been quetly dropped from the England team.
The subject was quietly dropped.
When nobody volunteered, the idea was finally dropped altogether.
Both countries have ogreed to drop ‘border controls.
It has been the worst drought in the country's history.
England has had several summer droughts in recent years.
Largeareas of Africaare affected by severe drought.
They're hailing it as the new wonder drug.
You used to be able 10 buy this medicine over the counter; but it is now a prescription drug.
The doctor put me on anti-inflammatory drugs.
The nurses come round togive the patients their drugs.
Some infections are now resistant to drugs.
He's taking drugs for depression.
Many addicts start on soft drugs, such as cannabis.
Inject(See note for more verbs.
See note for more nouns.
Drugs do (informal), experiment with, take, try, use~ Thenrinister confessed to having experimented with cannabis in her youth.
They committed the crime while high on drugs.
He'stried several times to comeoff cocaine.
The country imposes the deth penalty or trafficking inmarijuana.
The heroin seized has an estimated street value of £600 000, ~abuse, addiction, consumption, use ‘Cannabis consumption hasincreased sharply.
Sheallegedly has a $500-day coke habit.
Heroin overdose is a major cause of death among heroin users.
The authorities have been accused of active involvement in the narcatics trade.
Special pageat MUSIC drunk ad).
Harry went out and got drunk last night.
Andrew decided to try and get ‘Sharon drunk.
The wine had made him drunk.
He came hame blind drunk, as usual.
She was almast drunk with all these new impressions.
He was still half drunk.
Wait until the paint has completely dried.
Iy before you wear them again.
We left the wood in the shed to dry out.
Ir's best ta let your hair dry naturally.
Ir's been so hot this year that the pond has dried upcompletely.
Funds have completely dried up.
Come into the warm and get dry, both of you.
Thewellsin mostvillages in the region ‘have run dry.
Vaccine supplies started to run dry as the flu outbreak reached epidemic proportions.
We managed (o keep dry by huddling in a doorway.
There is every prospect of the weather remaining dry this week.
Rinse the mushrooms and pat dry.
The big corporations are bleeding some of these smalt countries dry (= taking all their money).
This type of wound is best kept dry without a dressing.
The river was bane dry.
Make sure the paint is thoroughly dry.
The ink wos scarcely dry on the ceasefire agreement before Jfighting brake out again.
The day will start bright and mainly dry.
It sounds a morally dubiaus proposition.
DrCK fead Fvery afternoon they went (o the park to feed the ducks.
The ducks paddled furiously towards the bread.
Sorme species of duck dive for food, while others dabble for Pplants and insects near the surface.
Slice the duck breast and serve.
Noteat PEER dull adj.
The work gets a bit dull at times.
The long lecturesmade the afternoon dull.
The film waslong and deadlydul.
They were struck dumb by somesort of shock.
Shesat there, dumbuwith ruge.
I'm sure my question sounded really dumb.
Local residents have organized a protest against the planned dumpsite.
Radioactive waste has been found at the dump.
The firm had illegally dumped toxic waste.
He dumped the boxes down in the kitchen.
We made a duplicate of the Key.
In~ The contract is prepared in duplicate, so that both parties can signit.
Duties have been reassigned to avoid wasteful duplication of work.
The new procedures should reduce duplication of ‘medical careand treatment.
She stayed there for the duration of the journey.
The next contract will be of shorter duration.
This continued throughout the duration of their marriage.
Dusk wasfalling aswedrove horne.
The lamps twinkled in the gathering dusk.
The tractor came up the track in cloudof dust.
There was a layer of fine dust on the table.
Remove any particles of dust on the surJfaceof the paint.
Her chess set lay on a shelf gatheringdust.
The dust now lay in a thick layer on her piano.
She chucked the mouldy potatoes in the dustbin.
These old shoes can go in the dustbin now.
The politicians who lost the elections will be consigned 1o the dustbin of history.
We put out the dustbins ona Wednesday morning.
The dustbin imen forgot to empty our bin this morning.
The pollution in this couniry 'makes it the dustbin of Europe.
Retailers have astaiutory duty fo provide good suitableor their purpose.
You havea legaldutyto take reasonable care.
She put down the phone and went out, her duty done.
Shefelt she had fulfilled her duty by providing him with a son.
I'd be shirking my duty if didn't warn him.
He t00k on the duty of maintaining the family home.
Jwonted to stop and chat, but duty called and T went back to the ofice.
You are under a statutory duty to keep accurate records.
They have aduty of confidentiality.
They have a duty to their parents towork hard.
It was a clear breach of proJesslonal duts.
You feel that you have to do your duty by your children.
Ar employer is not duty bound to provide ‘@ reference when an employee leaves.
The time he put in helping new recruits went beyond the call of duty.
Jelt it my duty t0 g0 L0 the police.
It was ruled that the injured man was in breach of his duty by ot wearing the safety equipment provided.
Idid i outof a sense of duts.
When I returned to work after my iliness T was put on light duties.
Police usually do beat duty in pairs.
The Tragic ghis oerenot working so there s polcemanon point duty.
My household duties were not particulorly onerous.
The members of staff each have their oun duties.
She ‘was unableto carryouther dutles because she was tooill.
Colleagues became suspicious when he fuiled to report for duty.
Hewasaccused of neglecting his professional duties.
He leaves hospital tomorrow and is expected toresume his duties at the beginning of next month.
When he Jfailed to turn up for training, he was relieved of his duties ascaptain.
Imaff duty tomorrow night.
You're not allowed todrink alcoholon duty.
The company is liable if you are injured during the execution of your duy.
They are going to put duty on foreign cars.
They claim that the wine is for personal use and 5o evade the duty.
Perfume is liable to import duty.
Cider carries duty at the lower rate.
Beer for personal use is exempt fromduty.
By changing its supplier the company saved thousands of pounds in import duty.
You have to payduty onall electrical goods.
He snuggled down under thewarm duvet.
Tre building looked more like doll's house than a human duwelling.
Supplies of coal are dwin dling fast.
Mermershipaof the club had dwindled away tonothing.
Profits slowly dwindled (o nothing.
Thecloth is then soaked in bluedye.
These couniries are characterized by highly dynamic economies.
The process is essentially dynamic with ideas and feedback flowing both ways.
They used Sfive tons of dynamite to blow up the rock.
Don't mention the single currency—it's political dynamite.
Tangdynasty from althe~ bowlsand pots from the twelfth dynasty under a/the ~ The civil service was established under the previous dynasty.
They were only 100 eager (o helpus.
We were eager for news.
The tiny error didn’t escape the eagle eye of her boss.
His sharp ears had picked up the uncertainty in her voice.
In the silence everyone seemed to beaware of listening ears.
Shedid not ike the scheme, as shemadeclear everytime shefound a receptiveear (= sb willing tolisten).
He plugged his ears with fissue paper to drown out the music.
Thedog pricked up its ears.
I've just had my ears pierced so I'm going to buy someearrings.
He could hear much better after having his ears syringed.
The voices buzzing all around echoed in her ears.
He went home with the teacher's warning ringing in his ears.
If news of the break-in reaches the boss's ears, we're in trouble.
Wrien the notes are played so close together the ear hears no space between them.
His ears pricked up when he heard his name mentioned.
He waited in the darkness, his ears alert for the slightest sound.
She stood outside the room, her earsstraining to heor what they were saying.
If you suck sweet as the plane takes off i siops your ears popping.
The explosion setmyears ringing and even mademe jumpa bit.
Tuxi? saida voice in myear: + PHRASES beam/grin/smile from oar to ear, can't balieve your ears She actually apologized.
Drop a quiet word in her eor about it before it's too late.
Their complaints about the poor service fellon deaf ears (= ‘wero ignored).
I'll keep my ears ‘open or a second-hand bikefor you.
The teacher turned a deaf eor to the boy's swearing (= ignored it).
She usually ploys the guitar by ear, rather than reading the music.
He has a good ear for accents and can usually tell where a speaker comes from.
I'm sorry I'm a bit eorly.
These discoveries were made at a surprisingly earlydate.
It's a little early for lunch.
He discovered these pleasures carly inlfe.
T've really earned this, " she said, taking up her mug of tea.
He deservedly earned the admiration of his colleagues.
First you have to earn their respect.
Her net earnings last year were £15 000.
You must declare allearnings to the tax office.
In earnings the grouth in average earnings over the last ten years loss of earnings She is also claiming compensation for loss of earnings.
She was listening to @ personal stereo through earphones.
Shewore a pair of dangly earrings.
The earth revolves on its axis.
Furniture fellover as theroom was shaken by an earth tremor.
We are flying at 30000 feet above the earth.
The astronauts were able to send the infor- ‘mation back toearth.
The fields had been ploughed, and there was nothing but bare earth to be seen.
The sun beat down on the baked earth.
The wreckage of the plane was scattered across the scorched earth.
My boots were caked in big clods of wetearth.
The plants must have their roots in the earth.
The earthquake hit the city at two in the morning.
The earthquake shook buildings throughout the business district.
The block of flats was destroyed In an earthquake.
She recurned her opponents serve with contemptuous ease.
The back of thegarmentis splitfor easein walking.
The wholemachine is designed for ease of use.
They passed the exam with ease.
The car brings easef access to the countryside.
Thesituation would be considerably eased {f more maney were made available.
The pain in my leg gradually eased away.
The new road should help ease traffic problems.
Tensions between the two countries are beginning toease.
Jean eased back on the pillows and relazed.
He eased himself into the driving seat.
She carefully eased the car out of the garage east noun, odj.
Have a good Easter.
Our next holiday isat Easter: for~ We usually ‘goaway for Easter: over~ The library s closed over Easter: PHRASES Happy Eastar], wish sba happy Easter easy adj.
Life Is getting easier for us.
These changes should make your job easier.
It was all too easy to forget why we had been sent there.
It is the easiest thing in the world to blame your parents.
Contacting everyone was no easy task.
Weate very well mostof the time = had lots of nice food).
He had not eaten property for days.
She doesn't eat sensibly (= doesn't eat food that is gaod for her).
Barton did not feel very hungy andatesparingly.
Come on, eatup your unch.
Try and eat something.
It willdo you good.
Al my children are big eaters.
They left the harbour on the ebb tide.
It wasdifficult sailing upstream againsta strong ebb.
We floated away from the beach on the ebb.
He knew that his life was ebbing away.
Her strength began f ebb.
We were definitely regarded as eccentric.
The bat compares the ‘sound of its cry with the sound of the returning echo.
We could just hear a Jaint echo.
Their footsteps on the bare boards sent out hollow echoes.
The political upheavals find an echo in the art of thetime.
The echo slowly died away.
Anecho came back from the walls of the building.
The sound echoed hollowly through the tall empty house.
The protest seemed 10 echo across the room.
His voice echoed around the roor.
Her footsteps echoed down the corridor.
Her ‘screams still echoed in his ears.
The call echoed off the walls of the cave.
Laughter echoed through the ‘house.
In his statement, the minister merely echoed the views of the chief police officer.
He's gone! Viv echoed incredulously.
They had ideas which seem to echo our own.
Solid fuel would be more economical.
This arrangement is more economicat with space.
Informal, underground The black economy ‘booms when there is high unemployment.
Te government was accused of failing to run the economy competently.
Transport workers are empioyed in atl sectors of the economy.
Agriculture wasthe backbone of the economs.
The 5overnment has been criticized over the statecf the economy.
Buying cheap shoes isa folse economy.
We could achieve major economies in time with this new machinery.
Savings are being planned aspart of 0 hugeeconomy drive.
It was impressive to see her economy of movement s she worked the ‘machine.
Large firms can benefit from economies of scale.
Kate closed her eyes in ecstasy at the thought of a cold drink.
Noteat DRUG (far more verbs and nouns) ecstatic ag.
Annie was ecstatic about the idea.
Martin was notexactly ecstatic ot the news.
Erosion has left the house perchedon the very edgeof the ciff.
The road skirts the western edge of the forest.
Smoke was making its way around the edges of the door: st the~ Soon we were at the edge of the woods.
The intensive training she had done gave her the edge over the other runners.
He edged carefully along the narrow ledge.
We slowly edgedour way towards the exit.
He began to get very edgy.
She made Jeff edgy with her constant demands.
She was all edgy that evening.
She had been a bit edgy all day.
Hester seemed edgy about something.
He was rather edgy with her.
The book appeared in a limited edition of 3000.
They have brought out anabridged edition of the encyclopedia.
The first edition of the newspaper appeared in 1859.
The encyclopedia will shortly beoutina revised edition.
The news paper ran a hard-hitting editorial criticizing the govern- ‘ment's economic policies.
Hedeclored his support for the minister in an editorial.
She seemed intelligent and well educated.
Less formally educated people can acquire professional competence.
Although he had had little formal education, he could recd and write well.
He was at a disadvantage because of the poor education he had received.
The school provides an excellent oliround education.
She went to college to continue her education.
He went to America to complete his education.
We acquire much of our world knowledge through education.
This place has a distinctly eerie atmosphere.
The full effects of the new tax have not yet been felt.
He didr’t seem to ‘have suffered any ill effects from his fall.
We had problems with mosquitoes, but this spray had the desired gffect.
Tre deterrent effect of the death penalty has long been questioned.
Heavy taxation has a disincentive effect.
The drug exerts a powerful effect on the brain.
The medicine started to take effect after a few minutes.
Women feel the effects of alcohol more quickly than men.
That is precisely the effect I was aiming at.
The border closure meant, in effect, that no trade took place betuween the countries.
They told us to go away, or words to that effect.
The plogue struck London again with devastating effec.
Thedry weather had an adverse effecton the potatocrops.
The new regulations come into effect next month.
The recommendations will soon be put into effect.
Some laws from the eighteenth century are Still in effect.
The bank has cut interest rates with immediate effect.
The overalleffectof the painting is overwhelming.
The stage lighting gives the gffect of a moonlit scen.
The dramatic effect was heightened by ‘her black dress and dead whiteface.
You know why I'm here? Doug paused for maximum effect, to .
She uses animal sounds to startling effectin her music.
Jfind advertising on the radio very effective.
This method is effective enough with greenfly.
Sneezes are devastatingly effective ot spreading infection.
This hard wearing material combines cost effectiveness with quality.
The exam results demonstrated the effectiveness of personal uition.
The drugs work well atfirst but grodually lose their effectiveness.
They're doing tests 1o evaluate the effectiveness of this herb as an antiseptic.
New timekeeping procedures had been introduced s part of anefficiency drive.
With~ The uprising was put down with ruthless efficiency.
The procedure is not fully eficient: improvements could be made.
The receptionist was briskly efficient.
Jis secretary was formidably efficient: her minutes were works of art.
Their equipment was not as efficient at finding goldastoday's machinery.
The heating system {5 veryefSictent in its use of of fuel.
It takes constant effort to become fluent in @ loriguage.
All the team members have put in a great dealofeffort.
Noeffort has been spared to make this hotel a welcoming, comfortable place.
The walk is difficult but well worth the effort.
Without~ This can be done quickly and with verylittle effort.
Ican see you have made a big efort to clean up.
The UN General Secretaryflew in in a lastditch effort tosave thetalks.
Shemadea fecble effort tosmile, then started crying again.
Students, teachers and families got together in team effort to decorate the school.
Ihave to makea conscious effort to be polite so early in the morning.
The museum relies on thevoluntary efforts of enthusiasts.
The police have reneted their efJforts to find the murderer.
The police channelled their efforts into searching around the river.
He failed in his efforts to give up smoking.
The woind resisted all my offorts 1o stop it bleeding.
Her efJorts were rewarded when she won an Oscar.
The gallery owner applauded the efforts of firefighters to save theexhibits.
Inaniyour~ Theclub has changed the rulesinan effort tomakethem fairer through sb's~ Through their ¢fJforts, enough money was raised to buy the equipment.
Despite our best efforts, we didn’tmanage towin thematch.
Second prize was a fair reward for his efforts.
We are making every effort to obtain the release of thehostages.
Burton made the jump look effortless.
She lays a clutch of four eggs on average.
Crack 100 ¢ggs into the mixture.
Brush the pastry with a litti beaten egg.
Only one sperm fertilizes an egg.
She likes to mix with people who flatter her ego.
They were summarily ejected by thesecurity guard.
Hewas forcibly efected from the restaurant.
Al the crew members ejected safely from the plane.
They refused to elaborateon the reasons for their decision.
The plans looked very elaborate.
The trousers are held up by a Length of elasticaround thewaist.
Ifelt strangely elated at the news.
She showed her elation at having finally achieved her ambition.
She opened her eves and propped herself up on one elbow to look at him.
He caught her elbow to steady her.
She thrust her elbouw into her attacker's face.
The tiny toilet compartment gives you hardly any elbow room.
Would Sir care to be seated? below tha ~ The whole of his arm below the elbow was badly burnt.
She slid a hand under his elbow to guide him into the shop.
He took his guest by the elbow and steered him in the direction of the bor: on one~ He raised himself on one elbowand looked at the bedside clock.
Hewas up (o his elbows in hot water; doing the washing-up.
She was cradling a small parcel in the crook of ‘her elbow.
Into sb's ribs She dug her elbow into Jim’s ribs to remind him not to give the secret away.
Members of the council are elected annally.
It was decided that the president should be lected directly in free elections.
Shehas been elected to Parliament.
What changes will he make if he gets elected? be daclared elected Any candidate with ‘more than half the votes shall be declared elected.
Five were successful, three being elected ‘unopposed.
The prime minister may decide 10 call an early election.
Elections are scheduled for November.
Mem- ‘bershipof the commiltee is by election.
Notall the registered electors actually voted.
The riseof amass electorate forced politicians to try and broaden their appeal.
In Weneed tocallin anelectrician to sorlout the wiring.
You'll need aqualified electrician to rewire your house.
We run the washing machine at night because ofpeak electricity Is much cheaper.
The hydroelzctric plant provides electricity for holf the island’s population.
Metals conduct electricity well.
Electricity flows through thewires in the circuit.
The village will soon be connected 1o the national electricity grid.
About 45000 people worked in electronics in Scotland.
Thelr firm merged with a Japanese electronics giant.
John has never been knouwn for his sartorial elegance.
The bullding has great elegance and charm.
The pillars give a classical elegance to the room.
The promise of tax cuts became the dominant element in the campaign.
There is a considerable element of danger in her job.
There is t00 much of a competitive element in the sales department.
Police say there may have been a racial element to the attacks.
These rumours do contain on elementoftruth.
Practical work will form a major element of the syllabus.
The place was completely exposed 1o the elements.
Tre risk cannot beeliminated altogether.
This procedure does not completelyeliminate the possibility of an accident.
Getting this job has effectively eliminated his financial worries.
Try to eliminate faity foods from your diet.
These people form an elite who have the power to make decisions.
He waxed eloquent about her talents as an actress.
He grew quite eloquent on the subject.
Further movie roles have proved ‘somewhatelusive for the young actor.
Sleep was strangely elusive.
Truth is a notoriously elusive qualit.
When I'sawwhat he'd written I fired off an angry email.
The government has agreed to lift the embargo imposed ten yearsago.
We knew the arms embargo was being broken.
She was now ready to embark on her journey of adventure.
He looked a bitembarrassed.
She's embarrassed about her helght.
He feltacutely embarrassed ot being thecentreof attention.
She seemed almost embarrassed by her own outburst.
His colour had risen and Isobel felt embarrassed for him.
My mother's presence made the situation even more embarrassing.
Ifourd the whole evering intensely embarrassing.
It was acutelyembarrassing for usall.
This latest incident could be embarrassing to the government.
She smiled to hide her slight embarrass- ‘ment.
Lfelt some embarrassment as we shook hands.
Isaw her standing behind me.
Helen changed the subject 1o saveme the embarrassmentof replying.
We all watched in silent embarrassment as Mr Rogers siarted tocry.
Much to his embarrassment, Mike realized that a small crowd was watching him.
The protests were becoming something of an embarrassment to the government.
The episode was a huge embarrassment for all concerned.
Sheworks at the Malaysian embassy in London.
Spanish embassy outside althe~a protestoutside the American embassy embedded ad;.
These ideas are deeply embedded in our culture.
They were locked in a passionate embrace on the station platform.
He managed (0 free himself from her embrace.
He released her from his embrace.
He drew her into his embrace.
She embraced the feminist cause with enthusiasm.
On She embroidered flowers on the front of the dress.
She embroidered the dress with flowers.
Two or three embryos are implanted into the woman's body.
The world is only slotwly emerging from recession.
They suddenly emerged into brilliant sunshine.
One thing emerges very clearly Jfrom this study.
The ansuer to the problem _quickly ~ emerged.
It subsequently emerged that he had known about the deal all along.
What eventually emerged from the election discster was a realization that it was timefor change.
Several facts started to emerge from my investigation.
The Pacific region has rapidly emerged as aleading force on the world stage.
Conditions after the war led to the emergence of a new type of political party.
The last decade saw the emergence of a dynamic economy.
The an- ‘nual competition has encouraged the emergence of several talented young musicians.
Don't call me unless its a real emergency.
Call this number if any unforeseen emergency should arise.
The police have ‘been given emergency pouers to deal with the criss.
The army provided emergency cover when the ambulance service went on strike.
Emergency supplies of food have been floun to the area.
The ambulance crashed whileanswering an emergencycall.
Emergency admissions to hospital are given top priority.
She told me to Keep the money for emergencies.
Ineed 0 know what to do in an emergency.
There's a fire blanket on the kitchen wall in case of emergencies.
She felt torn by conflicting emotions.
The nurse was handling his fragile emotions very carefully.
Years of pent-up emotion came out as he sobbed.
Fear is a normal human emotion.
There wasn’t a hint of emotion in his eyes.
She could not cope with such public displays of emotion.
Hefelt no emotion as she lef.
Her voice was choked with emotion.
Drama can help children to express their emotions.
The woman's face ‘showed no emotion.
Releasing these emotions is part of the healing process.
She realized she was shaking all over with emotion.
Counsellors encourage victims of crime to confront their emotions.
She spoke with deep emotion.
The film has a surprising depth of emotion for a comedy.
Her performance in the play covered the wholegamut of emotions.
He got quite emotional during the speech.
Having all her friends around her made her very emotional.
Don't besoemotional about everything! © PHRASES in an emotional state He was in a very emotionalstate emotive adj.
He raised the highly emotive issue of bullfighting.
The nurse should try to develop empathy between herself and the patient.
She had a deep empathy with animals.
Crown sb Charlemagne was crowned Emperor on Christmas Day 800.
It was under the emperor Justinian that these advances were made.
Examine the events leading to the war, with particular emphasis on France's rolein them.
The company lays great emphasis on customer care.
The Democrats shifted the emphasis away from direct taxation.
In recent years, theememploy ‘Dphasis has moved away from punishing drug addicts towards helping them.
The emphasis is on keeping fit rather than developing lots of muscles.
His slight emphasis on the word*Lady’ was definitely mocking.
With~ She repeated the question with emphas’s.
Put the emphasis on the second syllable.
The new law rightly empha.
It is important to emphasize this point.
All the arguments and counter-arguments serve to emphasize the controversy surrounding this disease.
Hewas most emphatic about me leaving.
The Japanese empire was quickly dismantled.
By now Britain had lost its empire.
The mighty empire finally crumbled.
Al the bureaucrats jealously guarded their own little empires.
He has builta huge business empire rom humble beginnings.
By 1960 the arms industry in America directly employed 3.
Those not gainfully employed are dependent on their savings.
The safety net is an image commonly employed in everyday Iie.
The army has far more junior afficers than it can usfully employ.
You'd be far better employed taking care of your own affairs.
The company hasonly 60emplogees.
The company made hundreds of employees redundant.
In addition toa competitive salars, the company affers attractive employee bene: Jits.
Freelance workersdonot enjoy the bengfits of employeestatus.
The hotel prides tiself on being a good employer that treats its staff well.
The company was one of the first to offer meaningful employment to the blind.
The government aims to achieve full employment within three years.
Targe-scale Steel making is the only local industry offering largescale employment.
He finally secured employment in a localfaclory.
She lost her employment when the Jirm closed.
This investment will certainly create employment in the area.
The steelworks provided employment for thousands of people.
There are few employment prospects in the fown for unqualified young people.
The survey studied the employment status and lifestylecf people within thecommunity.
The firm's employ- ‘ment practices have been widelycriticized.
Most of last year's graduates are now in employment.
She had been out of employment for three years.
The cupbocrds hod all been completely emptied.
He emptied the bottle of its contents.
The hall half emptied as bored businessmen raced for the buffet tables.
The room ‘gradually emptied out.
The castle had a deep moat which emptied into the lake.
The streets soon emptied of shoppers.
The box lay empty on the bed.
The reservoirs could end up empty if this dry weather continues.
The council is letting useful housing stand empty.
The house had been left empty for severalweeks.
There was a vast expanse of ulterly emply sky to look at.
The house flt curiously empty without the children.
Of Thestreets wereempty of people.
The garden is fully enclosed.
Iniwithin The ring is enclosed ina plastic case.
The singer gave four encores.
He took several encares before the crotwd finally began to leave.
The audience called for an encore.
Fbr an encore, he sang an un- ‘accompanied folk song.
It wasa chance encounter thatled to the setting up of the new political party.
The press conference was her first direct encounter with the ‘media.
Walruses were commanly encountered in.
Shetland Islands until quiterecently.
We were greatly encouraged by the suppart we received.
The government must actively encourage investment in these areas.
These questions are designed to encourage debate.
Her head of department encouraged her in her research work.
Given the lightest encourcgement, he'd beon his Knees swearing eternal devotion.
Mick was always ready (o offer advice and encouragement.
With a bit of encouragement, she could do really well.
This news is most encouraging.
Civil War up in my encyclopedia.
That's his wife sitting at the far end of the table.
We tried cutting through a back road but it wasa dead end.
The company believes in throwing new employees inat the deep end with no training.
Toke the free end of the ropeand pass it through the hole.
Continus until you reach the end of the road.
The teams changed endsat half time.
Turn inio Hope Street and our house is rightat theend.
Stand it on end (= upright).
The two parties represent opposite ends of the political spectrum.
We watked along the whole promenade, from end to end.
The injury brought her career to an eary end.
The award was afitting end to a distinguished career.
Themeeting finalLy came (0 an end at six.
Tulks were in progress to bring an end to the fighting.
There's no end in sigh to the presenterisis.
The film’s backers were delighted with theend product.
The proceedings are expected 10 be at an end by 6pm.
They get married at the end of the ‘movie.
He wants the reports by the end of the ‘month.
He won't win, but he'll keep fighting {0 the end.
I'm staying until the end of this week.
What the business community wants is anendto therecession.
Her death marks the end of an era.
The loss of this contract could signal the end of the line for the shipyard.
His story was one big lie Jfrom beginning to end.
Despite our differences, we were working to a common end.
The money might have been used (o ‘more beneficial ends.
She wished to have house built, and to this end she engaged a local archiltect, © PHRASES an end In itself For her, travetling had become an end in itself rather than @ means of seeing new places.
Justifi the means He defended a morality in which the end jusi Jies the means.
She is exploiting the current situation for her own ends.
He met his end atthe Battle of Waterloo.
The end came when he collapsed after playing golf.
The meeting ended abruptly when the chairman wos called awey.
At [ast the war ended.
The peace talks have ended inconclusively, with neither side prepared togive way on key points.
The attempt finally ended in failure.
The ‘Show ended with a song.
The military action could end in disaster.
In tears (figurative) After all that excitement the day was bound toend in tears (= unhappily).
They are accused of causing an explosion tikely to endanger lfe.
All better now, are we?" he enquired in a patronizing manner hardly calculated to endear.
She had an unfriendly manner which did nat exactly endear her to her colleagues.
Learning a foreign language well can be a lifelong endeavour.
Enthusiasm is auvital ingredient in all human endeavour.
She always encourages her children in their artistic endeavours.
You must make an endeavour towark harder.
In an endeavaur to improve the service, they introduced free parking.
Despite her best endeavours, she couldn't persuade anyone ta volunteer a field of endeavour He has the ability to achieve success in whatever field of endeavour he should choase.
We will make every endeavour ta abtain sufficlent supplies.
The crowd cheered on the unknown Tunisian, ‘hoping for a fairy-tale ending to the race.
The ‘meal was the perfect ending to a great weekend.
The book has a sad ending.
This isa happy ending toa rather sad stary.
The long walk back seemed endless.
The government has ‘broadly endarsed a research paper proposing new educatianal targets for 14yearolds.
The ‘plan does not explicitly endorse the private ownership of land.
The new design only received a lukewarm endorsement from head aoffice.
Wearehappy 1o give the product our full endarsement.
They are now seeking endarsement for their ideas.
Consumer Council ~forendorsementfor the plan ~from His presidential campaignwon endorsement from several celebrities.
She showed great endurance in the face of pain.
The astronauts will ‘undergo a series of trials to test their physical and mental endurancein space.
Swimming a litle fur ther each session will build endurance.
This behaviour is beyond endurance.
They are capable of amazing feats of endurance.
She was almast at the limits of her endurance.
Runninga marathon is seen by many as the ultimate test of endurance.
In today's match England play their old enemy, Scotland.
The lion is the zebra’s chief enemy.
The Church and the Cammunist Party were natural enemies.
They united in the fuce of a common enems.
She didn't have an enemy in the world.
He made many enemies during his brief reign.
Ididn't want to make an enemy of Mr Evans.
He was prepared to useany weapon to fight against his enemies.
He turned to face his enemy.
The cat uses its claws to protect itself against enemies.
The spies managed to penetrate behind enems lines.
The men came under enems fire.
Intelligence reported enemy activity just off the coast.
They decided to use the weapon against the enemy.
The document must not at any price fall into enemy hands.
He was shot for desertion in the face of the enems.
Since the scandal, the former ‘minister has become public enemy number one.
Quasars are the highly energetic cores of distant galaxies.
She seems remarkably energetic for a woman her age.
Quite T'm feeling quite energetic today.
There was a lack of creativeenergy in the British film industry.
You can judge how healthy you are by the amount of energy yau have.
Bringinggup twins requires a great deal of energy.
The children are always full f energy.
He never seems (0 lack energy.
She put all her energies into her work.
The kids were running cround crazily, working off their surplus energy.
The hills sapped his energy and he got off his bike for frequent rests.
The volunteers' energy was dissi- ‘pated by the enormotis amounts of paperwork involved in theproject.
It was late and my energy was beginning toflag.
Football gives them an outtet for their energy.
The new pouwer station produces vast amountsof energy.
No battery could store enough energy to turn over @ car's engine.
The nuclear plant provides a fifthaof the notion’senergy supplies.
The country could face an energy crisis if demand continues torise.
The rules were strictly enforced.
The ban cannot be legally enforced.
Thie government may take steps to enforce compliance with the new measures.
Ps called for tougher enforce.
The court is ineffective because it lacks the necessary enforcement machinery.
He tried to engage me in conversation.
I'm afraid Mr Wilson cannot see you now as he isotherwise engaged.
She was engaged in conversation with a client.
He is actively engaged on several projects.
Mrs Scott is engaged with a customer at the moment.
The couple got engaged last month.
She's engaged to an octor.
Mrs Spratt regrets that she is unable to attend owing to a previous engagement.
It is important thot I keep this engagement.
The prime minister will carry out no official public engagements during the month of August.
The president fell i1l and was forced to cancel atl public engagements.
He announced his engagement to his longtime girlfriend.
He pulled up under some treesand cut the engine.
Shesatat the traffic lights revving the engine.
The new model is fitted with a more powerful engine.
She walted with the engine run- ‘ning while he bought a paper: > Theengine runs on unleaded petrol.
The engine’s firing on all four cylinders nou.
The engine coughed and died.
The plane's engine roaredas it prepared for take-off.
He heard acarengine racing behind him.
This model is powered by a 1.
You need more oil in the engine.
The engine broke down just outside the station.
Britain isn't producing enough engineers.
The bridgeis a fine piece of engineering.
Train services on Sundaywill berestricted, because of engineering works.
The new building is a remarkable feat of engineering.
American, British, Indian, etc.
Early, Middle, Modern, Old = Note at LANGUAGE (for more collacates) engrossed ad).
Heseemed completely engrossed in his book.
His reply was highly enigmatic.
She greatly enjoys her work.
The kids all seemed to enjoy themselves.
We had a most enjoyable evening.
For sheer enjoyment, you can't beat this game.
They Jound real enjoyment just in being together.
Food is there to keep you healthy and enhance your enjoyment of Iife.
Mackie was smiling with enjoyment.
The ‘noisereallyspoilt her enjoyment in living there.
The castle was enlarged considerably in the fifteenth centurs.
Thegallery is secking toenlargeits holdings of Danishart.
Itional He had earned their lasting enmity.
Her words brought home the enormity of what was happening.
Adam enquired politely whether they had enjoyed the show.
You wish to speak with me? he enquired coldly.
Do you mean blackmall? she enquired sweetly.
Rose was enguiring after 0u (= asking how you were).
She enquired after my mother's health.
He didn't enquire as to my identity.
The governor announced an enquiry into theevents.
Police have lounched a murder enquiry.
You may be Subjected to a_disciplinary enquiry.
The enquiry will be chaired by ajudge.
The enquiry will take place behind closed doors.
The enquiry heard this week that the crosh was unavoidable.
An enguiry found that the vintage plane was in good working order.
The enquiry ruled that the cars should be fitted with bigger bumpers.
Al the enquiry the minister maintained that nothing illegal had been done.
The director has been suspended.
Ject of an enquiry He now finds himself the subject of an enquiry after reports of financial irregularities.
I've made ex- ‘haustive enquirtes, but haven't been able Lo find what I want.
Our national enquiry centre is open every day and can help you with all your general enquiries.
After the disaster; the police had aflood of enquiries about missing relatives.
The policeare still pursuing thelr enquiries.
The committee directed its enquiries to Mrs Taylor.
Thefaculty welcomes enquiries from prospective entrants.
Police believe he can help them with their enguiries intoarobbery.
You are requested tocomplete an enquiry form.
She has been released on bail pending further enquiries.
Erin Smith ~ by enquiries by police ~from enquiries from the public ~into P'm making enquirfes into the possibitity of going by train.
The purpose is one of sclentific enquiry.
The purpose of the research is to put this area of enquiry on a sound experimental footing.
No one has yet been arrested but the police have assured us that all possible lines of enquiry are being pursued.
Methods of enquiry vary from subject to subject.
Children areborn with a spirit of enquiry.
Enrolment will take place inthemain hall.
You will be given a reading listat enrolment.
The full fee is payable on enrolment.
We must take steps now fo ensure the survivalof theseanimals.
Restructuring will inevitably entail compromises.
The fishing lines had become hopelessly entangled.
He became entangled in legal disputes.
Sara had got entangled with some potitical group.
We entered through a large iron gate.
You may need to enter this information ‘manually.
In Your details have been entered in our database.
Please enter all your personal details on the form provided.
Enter the dota onto the computer.
The programme is a Jjoint enterprise with the National Business School.
They are willing to undertake a new enterprise.
In an/the = The team leader will be the most im- ‘portantfactor in this difficult enterprise.
Herunsa successful small enterprise.
The Act will encourage private enterprise.
The government has promoted the small firm and the enterprise culture.
They entertained us to lunch in their new house.
Eversone was thoroughly entertained.
She entertained us with stories of her travels.
We fired a magician to keep thechildren entertained.
Scheme could be seriously entertained.
She would make no promises, but was prepared to entertain theidea.
He tried to make his speech more entertaining.
The others seemedto find my discomfort hugely entertaining.
It was highly entertaining for the people around them.
Soaps like ‘Nelghbours' are pure entertainmentand there is nothing wrong with that.
Cinema is ‘medium of mass entertainment.
Vole for your (op light entertainment show.
They laid on lavish entertainment for their guests.
The films were ‘boughtchieftyfor their entertainment value.
Ladies and gentlemen, for your entertatnment, we present Magic Man.
They were enthralled with the play.
She kept her audience enthralled throughout her twenty-minute performance.
The children listened enthralled as thestoryteller unfolded her tale.
After an initial burst of enthusi- ‘asm for jogging, I gradually lost interest.
Her voice was full of enthusiasm.
She ‘managed to convey an enthusiasm she did not feel.
The team have shown enthusiosm and commitment.
Heaccepted the invitation with feigned enthusiasm.
The trip has fired his enthusiasm for all things French.
This weather would dampen anyone's enthusiasm Sor swimming.
Few people expressed enthusiasm about the current leaders.
Theidea aroused immenseenthusiasm among party workers.
Bot sides have shown adistinct lack of enthusiasm for discussion.
She'sallenthusiastic about China now that she's been there.
The audience was wildly enthusiastic.
Mrs Neil did ot seem particularly enthusiastic about her job.
He was quite enthusiastic about the idea.
Church and empire were fused in a single entits.
The 1o companies will combine toformanew entity.
While the front door is being repaired, please use the side entrance.
The little porch marked the entrance to a churchyard.
The building has only one entrance.
She stood firm, blocking the entrance.
The band left by the rear entrance toescape photographers.
Shestood in theentrance to the ward.
Go through the matn entrance into the yard.
There is a back entrance Jfrom West Street.
Hewas waiting at the entrance to the cave.
Some of the protesters tried to gain entrance to the meeting.
The winning entrant received tickets to the theatre.
The essay competition attracted 46entrants.
You will auto- ‘matically be registered as an entrant in the Prize Draw.
The club offes free entry to women on Thursdays.
They were later allowed entry into the country.
It has been necessary to restrict eniry into the club.
Entry tickets to most attractionsare included in the price of the holiday.
Into Thesequalifications will not guarantee you entry into the police force.
She applied for entry to Nottingham University.
The landlord had the right of entryto the flat with due warning.
The house was quiet, and there were no signs of a forced entry.
He found the door locked, but he forced an entry.
The champion made his usualdramaticentry into the arena.
Drugs are believed to come into the country through five main entry poinis.
Into Hungary's entry into the EU ~10 She wondered how shecould gain entry to the building.
The winning entry will be published in next month's issue.
The showattracted entries from all over the couritry.
There were a record 2000 entries in the under-17 section.
Very little information is given in the diary entries.
Look at the dictionary eniry for “welcome’.
Please enclose a stamped addressed envelope if ‘you would like a repl.
To apply, use the enclosed reply-paid envelope (no stamp needed).
The letter was suspicious, and I considered steaming open the envelope.
The envelope was markedPersonal.
Inanthe~ I had put the letter in the wrong envel- ‘ope.
Into anithe ~ He quickly stuffed the money back into theenvelope.
He gave her the envelope of certificates.
She tried not to appear envious.
Immediate Cold-blooded animals depend on the temperature of their immediate environment.
This period provided a favourable envir- ‘onment for the spread of communism.
Walkers can unuwittingly damage the fragile environment in which the birds tive.
Children learn best in their home environment.
Investors are showing ‘more caution in the current economic environment.
She now fiad to transfer her design sklls to commercial environment.
The catwalked round, exploring its new environment.
Thegovernment should do more toprotect the envir- ‘onment.
Inthe~theamount of carbon in the environment PHRASES conservation/protection of the environ- ‘ment, damage to the environment farming methods that ‘minimize damage to the environment harmful to the environment The label identifies tre products that are least harmful to the environment.
It wos originally envisaged that the talks would take place in thespring.
The ‘government has not yet appointed an envoy to the area.
American president~to Heserved asenvoy to the French government.
Her youth and looks crousedextreme envy in her rivals.
Iwasfilled with envy at their adventurous Iifestyle.
British television s the envy of the world (= is admired by everyone).
Her car wos an object of envy in the neighbourhood.
Gphus epidemic struck in the winter of 1919-20.
Over fifty people died during the flu epidemic last winter.
Marriage breakdouwn in the West has reached epldemic proportions.
She has only told you about the latest episode in long history of mentat iliness.
He says he just wants toorget the whole unfortunate episode.
The ‘nextepisode hasnotyet been filmed.
These films stand asanepitaph to the great director.
He wanted these lines as his epitaph.
She wrote the perfect epitaph for the poet, ~on Joyce's epitaph on King Edward VIII ~to It makes a fitting epi10phto a great career.
The dropping of the first atom bomb marked a new epoch in warfare.
Hedidnot re- ‘gord himself s her intellectual equal.
He talks even to small children as equals between ~s An interview should be a conversation be tween equals.
His guitar playing is without equal.
He was regarded as the first among equals’ by the other office clerks.
When it comes to plain speaking, she has few equals.
In fighting, they had no equals.
We moved some of the better players to make the two sides equal.
In every way, precisely Their test results were equal in every way.
Finess is important in sport, but of ot least equal importance are skills.
In The two books are more or less equal in length.
Three feetis roughly equai to onemetre.
Ifelt more than equato the task.
Women do not yet have true equality in the company.
Peaple from these ‘minarity groups must have equality of opportunity.
These women are demanding fairness and equality in their pay.
The constellations in the night sky cannot bedirectly equated with the heroes of Greek mythology.
It's hard to equate this gentle woman with the monster portrayed in the newspapers.
Weare taught to equate beauty with success.
This can be shown by a simDpleeguation.
Into, enter (into) The availability of public transport is also part of the equation.
Moneyalso comes into the equation.
Rainforests occur around the equafor: at the~ The sun heats the sea more at the equatar than at the poles.
The lake lies exactly on the equator.
The centre is well equipped for sailing.
The hastel is specially equipped for wheelchair access.
The lat is fully equipped with a cooker and fridge.
Scome equipped with Rooms vary in size and come equipped with hairdryers, television and telephone.
Hospitals are increasingly depending on charity for vital equipment.
The local council is supplying new play ‘equipment for the playground.
He lacks the intellectual equipment to succeed in politics.
The ‘plane uses state-of thert navigation equipment.
No specialist equipment is needed.
The basic equip ment consists of a plastic mask and a length of rope.
There is no exact male equivalent for witches.
It is the approximate equivalent in height to the Matterhorn.
This qualification is the equivalent of a degree.
This concert hall has been described as the ‘American equivalent to London’s Albert Hall.
The room had the elegance of a bygone era.
In The fall of the Borlin Wall ushered in a wholenew era.
The country hasentered an era of high unemployment.
We live in an era of religlous uncertainty.
Impossible to These insects are very difficult to eradicate.
Thedisease has now been successfully eradicated from the world.
Theyaredetermined to erase the bad memoriesof last year's defeats.
These people have been virtually erased from the history book.
The event will take place ina specially erected marquee.
He sat very erect, listening intent1.
She heldher head erectas she walked proudlyuptothe platform.
Walkers ‘hould stick t0 bvious paths, even if they are badly eroded.
The distinction between social classes is slowly being eroded.
The river bank had been steadily eroded over the years.
The rocks have eroded away overtime.
Acid rain has caused severe erosion on the hillside.
The area suffers badly from coastal erosion.
There weresome over ly erotic scenesin the film.
She made her brother run some little errands for her.
My boss kept ‘sending me out on errands.
She's gone on an errand for her mother.
The report contained some glaring errors.
He made the fatal error of borrowing more than he could pay back.
The ability to learn from past errorsis vital in_business.
The Kenyan athlete madea tacticalerror in starting too fust.
The plane crash was caused by human error, ‘notmechanicalfailure.
He had committed a grave error in letting them see the document.
She made several seriouserrors during the race.
She has avoided the comman error of writing too much.
Glasses can correct most errors in your vision.
The paper accidentalIy printed the victim's address, then compounded their error by printing her name the next day.
Anerror message comesup when 11y toopen the program.
In~ The machine had been switched off in error (= by mistake).
He realized his error in not attending the funeral.
Thespeech contained many errors of fuct.
His attempts to arrange aparty ended up as a comedy of errors.
Judgement The minister had made an amazing error of Judgement.
The margin of error for a racing driveristiny.
His anger suddenly erupted into furiousshouting.
It was the biggest eruption of Vesuvius for some years.
Violence betueen the tuo sides has been steadily escalating.
The cost of raw materials has escalated sharply.
The reorganization has led toa dramatic escalation in costs.
Tuke the escalator down to the lower level.
He made hisescape through the windou.
Tfound an open door and made good my escape.
She looked round for a means of escape.
There was clearly no possibility of escape.
He hada narrow escape from gunire.
They narrowly escaped being killed in the fire.
The head of department cannot entirely escape responsibility for this situation.
Into They escaped into the forest.
The family escaped to England.
Thicves escaped with property worth over £5 000.
Only two of the men escaped alive.
He had managed to escape the clutches of the police yet again, escape unharmed/unhurtiuninjurediunscathed, escape with your life She was very tucky to escape with her life.
She had @ police escort to the hospital.
The army provided ‘small armed escort for the delegation.
The referee ‘needed a police escort as he left the stadium.
The opposition leader was arrested and taken to the capital under escort.
The big computer companies are very worried about industrial espionage.
Two members of the embassy staff had been expelled for espionage.
She was found guilty of espionage against the United States.
In 2001 she published a collection of essays.
Have ou done your essay yet? I give in, hand in Essays handed in late will not be accepted.
You have (0 answer Sout of Sessay questions in the exam.
In anithe~ He made some very good points in his essay.
We've got to write anessay on the envir- ‘onment.
His paintings embody the very essenceof the immediate post-war years.
Histheory wasnot new in essence.
Add a few drops of vanilia essence.
It is becoming almost essential for students to have a second language.
Increased competition makes it essential for the business to innovate.
Although useful, the accessories are by no means essential.
He believed that some form of religion was essentiat to human life.
Just try and grasp the essentials of theargument.
The relief agencies are trying to provide food and other basic essentials.
Don't let's worry about the details at this stage.
Let's concentrate on the essentials.
The two countries agreed to establish full diplomaticrelations.
He was appointed to the ‘newly established Department of the Environment.
His position in the organization isnow firmlyestablished.
The exhibition helped her establish herselfasanartist.
He has now established his reputation as a popular musician.
Thefestival has become established as one of the town’s annual events.
Opposition MPs are calling for the establishment of an independent food and drugs agency.
The months that followed saw the establishment of a strong military presence in the region.
With the establishment of major new markets, the economy Is thriving.
She's now running a small government research estabHishment.
Br , French, etc.
The British Establishment isveryslow to accept change.
His abstract paintings offended the art establishment.
Thefamilyownsalarge estate in the north of the country.
The young prince i the heir to avast estate in the west of the country.
Industrial, trading The factory is on a large industrialestate on the outskirts of town.
She lives on a council estate in Leeds.
She left her whole estale to her niece.
She inherited her father'sestate.
She had earned the esteem of everyone in the toun.
It is easy for children to lose their self esteem.
In, rise in He fell in public esteem following the scandal.
The school's aim Is to build the self-esteem of the children.
He is held in the highest esteem by all who know him.
We would like to offer y0u this gift asamark of our esteem.
Current estimates suggest that supplies will run out within six ‘months.
Flight times in the brochure are based on our best estimate, and will be confirmed os soon as possible.
Three firms submitted estimates for the work.
Ore estimate suggests that 30 000 jobs may be lost.
Some estimates Pput the figure as high as 50%.
According to the revisedestimate, four miltion people will be without homes.
Even ata conservative estimate, there is a lot of work to be done.
In his first estimate, he suggested a figure f £5 000.
According to an estimate bya leading newspaper she earns £40 million a year.
We will Send you an estimate for the repairs.
It is conservatively estimated that not less than half a million people died in the famine.
The strike was officially estimated to ‘have cost 50million.
The results of the survey were ‘used to estimate the preferences of the population at large.
Weestimated the cost at £50 000.
In He went up in my estimation when I heard about his chrity work.
In my estimation, you've done a good Job.
She resigned over an issue of personal ethics.
The study wasapproved by the medical ethics committee.
There should be a code of business ethics which indicates how clients are to be served.
Job to decide on matters of ethics.
He showed his contempt for soclal etiquette by not wearing a tie.
He had breached etiquette by notinforming his superiors of his decision.
Etiquette requires that the brides father makes a speech.
The solicitor was accused of a breach of professional etiquette.
He is an expert on matters of etiquette.
She knew houw to address bishops according to the rules of etiquette.
The news sparked a wave of euphoria acrossthe country.
All the euphoria about the ‘new methods' s00n faded.
By then, the euphoria over the fall of the ‘Berlin Wall had evaporated.
Helicopters were used to evacuate people Jfrom their homes.
The man has now been safely evacuated to the mainland.
They narrowly evaded a police car which was approaching.
Her response was simply toevade the problem altogether.
Responsibility could not be so easily evaded.
The evidence should be carefully evaluated.
The role of stay-at-home mother is more positively evaluated in working-class communities.
We've still got tocarryoutan evaluation of the results.
In their evaluation of the project, they considered only certain aspects of it.
The new scheme is still under evaluation.
Try to keep the room at afuirly even temperature.
The scores remained more or less even throughout the competition.
We spent the evering walking round the town.
As the evening wore on, Phil became very drunk.
Her parents wereout for theevening inthe~, on Friday, etc.
You deserve ar occasional evening out.
Praspective students were invited to the school's open evening.
The club will hold a social evening to welcome new members.
Tonight's programme looks back at the main events of the year.
Outside big cities, murder s a rare event.
Subsequent ‘events proved him wrong.
We had a huge party, and hired @ photographer to record the event.
Today is the hospital's fiftieth anniversary, and there will be a party to mark the event.
These events quickly led to confusion.
The police are trying to establish a picture of events leading upto the killing.
The Birmingham meeting is one of the most prestigious events in the racing calendar.
The event will be held in the grounds of the manor house.
Several leading players boycotted the event in protest at the reduced prize money.
This race will be the main event of the afternoon.
The team events will take ‘place later this week.
In anfthe ~ African runners swept the medals in thedistance events.
They were forcibly evicted from thelr home.
He claimed damages for unlawfuteviction.
They are facing eviction from thelr home.
Available evidence points to pilot error as the cause of the crash.
Grucial, important, valuable, vital The deJfence accused the prosecution of withholding crucial evidence.
They convicted the wrong man on the basis of a signed confession with no corroborative evidence.
Another team of sclentists has come up with conflicting evidence.
The scandal is damning evidence of the government's contempt for democracy.
There was a mass of circumstantial evidence linking Watson 10 the ‘murder.
She admitted giving false evidence to the court.
Wedornot havethe evidenceto prove these claims.
The tapes provided evidence of her intentions.
She was hoping shewould not have to give evidencein court.
Hesays 'he's been working hard, but I haver't seen any evidence of it.
The tearn cited evidence from a recent earthquake to back uptheir idea.
Therisein crime soften cited asevidence of ageneral breakdoun of authority.
We must wait to hear his evidence before we makeany Judgement.
The judge can decide whether toadmit or exclude evidence.
Evidence is accumulating that a defective genemay be responsible for this disease.
The evidence pointed to the existence of an international smuggling network.
He cited Australia’s sporting success as euidence for his theory.
In~ A photo of the victim's injuries was produced in evidence.
On present evidence the team will be lucky to make the final.
On the evidence of his latest exhibition, Miller is an artist whols past his best.
The team have been collecting evidence about war crimes.
What evidence do you have for that claim? ~ of Archaeologists found evidence of rich ‘and varied culture at the settlement.
The frst chaper reviews the evidence on how children learn language.
The company denies, in the face of overwhelming evidence, that smoking causes cancer.
In e light of new evidence, a new enquiry into the crash is likely to take Dlace.
The kidnapping charge was dropped because of lack of evidence.
He made the accusations without a shred of evidence to back them up.
The silence of the forest was made evident by the occasional snap of a twig.
It i already evident that new roads only generate new traffic.
The strain of her work schedule became painfully evident as she jetted from New York to London and on to Milan.
It was fairly evident from her tone of voice that she disapproved.
His anger was evident in his attitude to the others.
It was evident to me that the mission wouldfail.
Thissort of fob s a lesser evil than ‘unemployment.
His simple message was that God will punish those that do evil.
Youcan always choose to resist evil.
He sees money as the root af all evil.
He believes that all people are basically evil.
Her face, though sad, still evoked a feeling of serenity.
Foolution proceeds by a series of smallchanges.
Monkeys in the New World evolved quite separately from thosein the Old World.
More complex animals gradually evolved from these very simple creatures.
The protest move- ‘ment has evolved intoa well organized political party.
These are very highly evolved animals.
Trese figures have been greatly exaggerated.
Impossible to It is difficult 1 exaggerate the import: ‘anceof developing good study habits.
There was a degree of exaggeration in ‘hisdescription of events.
John is rather given to exaggeration.
Their results, even allowing for exaggeration, are impressive.
There were, without exaggeration, ‘hundredsof applicationsfor the job.
It would be a bit of ‘an exaggeration to say that ' desperate to leave.
It s no exaggeration (0 say that having a baby changes your life.
I'm revising for end of year exams.
In, pass, scrape through In spite of her examine worries, she passed the exam with lying colours.
Candidates Jfound cheating in any exam will be disqualified from all Iheir exams.
The final exam is set by a board of proJessors.
As soon asthe exams are over I'm going on holiday.
Most students suffer from exam nerves fo some extent.
There is a subdued atmosphere in the school at exam time.
The exam format has been changed to include multiple chaice questions.
Theregional exam boards all get together regularly toensure equal standards.
He did badly in his maths exam.
The styff entrance examination removes 60 per cent of prospective students.
He has just completed his final examinations at London University.
One of the teacher’s principal duties is to prepare students for external examinations.
Students may enter for both examinations.
The examinationsare set by individual teachers.
HeJailed his exomination in history.
Each of the proposals deserves careful examination.
The school curriculum has undergone critical examination tnrecent years.
Iie carried out a postmortem examination.
His ideas about social change do not stand up tocloseexamination.
She lay on the examination couch and waited for thedoctor to return.
Several items of clothing are still under examination.
The school's controversial methods have come under examination by the local authority.
Each case must be carefully examined.
We shall now proceed to examine these two aspects of the problem in detail.
Critically examine your work as if you were looking at someoneelse'sefforts.
Anna stopped to examine a plant growing by the stream.
The room wasexamined minutely for clues.
Let us examine the implications of this theors.
The course is externally examined (= by people from outside the college, university,etc).
In Thestudents will beexamined in all subjects at theend of term.
Youare only being examined on this semester's work.
Thisisa clossicexampleof a badly designed building.
His treatment of his secretary was a blatant exampleof managerial arrogarce.
The oft-quoted example of Nero ‘playing theviolin as Rome burned shows the Emperor's detackment from reality.
The book is full of practical examptes of classroom activities.
Let ‘megiveaconcrete example of what Imean.
Let me sgive you a few examples of what T mean.
The leoflet includes several examples of bad grommar.
She iilustrates her point with examples drawn from contemporary newspaper accounts.
To take an obuious example, if there is a good ‘harvestthe price of grain will all.
The teacher in our example is clearly wrong.
She is a shining example of how to organize your time.
Set, show You must set a good example to the children.
Jfollow the example of this one.
The Jfilm was held up as an example of good cinemo.
Children learn by example.
His generosity isan example tous alt.
The headmaster had made an example of him by scolding him in front of the whole school.
The organization has expressed its exosperation with the government.
In~ She rolled her eyes in sheer exasperation.
He snorted with exasperation.
The area has not yet been fully excovated.
Pottery has been excavated from thessite.
Further archaeological excavations are now being carried out.
Excavations of the site have revealed an Iron Age settlement.
More discoveries were made as the excavation proceeded.
The House voted by 327 votes to 93, comfortably exceeding the required two-thirds majority.
Income is expected to exceed expenditure.
The school strives for academic excellence.
The Business School has a reputation for excellence in research.
The college aims to be @ world centre of excellence in the field of marine biologs.
Te restaurant’s standards of excellence have won it several auwords.
The school is considered excellent.
The meals are generally excellent.
The performances and recordings are uniformly excellent.
In an otherwise excellent issue about global warming, I found Jeremy Creed’s article very unconvincing.
Clancey was excellent ot keeping the kids under contral.
These potatoes are excellent for baking.
Most industries have suffered ‘badly in the recession, but there have been a few notableexceptions.
With a few honourable exceptions, MPs kepl quiet about the corruption.
No parking is allowed, but anexception ismadefor disabled drivers.
The whole of the island was flooded with the exception of a small area in the north.
Without exception, all employees must carry their identity card with them at all times.
Guide dogs are the one exception t the store’s ban on dogs.
The weather had beer rainy for days, and the day of the race was no exception.
Nowadays a job for lfe is very much the exception rather than the rule.
Most of his family are sports enthusiasts, but he's the exception to the rule.
The head teacher considers Jamie's performance altogether exceptional.
The programme included excerpts from Verdi's operas.
The paper published some short excerpts from Mandela's memoirs.
In~ The drug can be harmful if taken in excess.
They never smoked or drank to excess.
He considered the level of tax excessive.
We get together once a month for a mutualexchange of tdeas.
Woollen cloth and timber were sent to Egypt in exchange for linen or papyrus.
There were exchanges of goods between the fuwo regions.
There were many acrimonious exchanges betueen the two men.
She is in France on a student exchange.
He's gone on an exchange to Rome.
The horses have easily excitable nervous systems.
Don't get the children too excited.
By now the crowd was wildly excited.
The kids seem pretty excited about the holiday, atexcited ot the news by He wos puzzled but strangely excited by the commtion.
She Jelta surge of excitement when she heardthe song.
Her face was flushed with excitement.
She was almost sick with excitement and apprehension.
The news caused tremendous excitement among scientists.
He couldrn’t Suppress the excitement in his oice.
The element of risk just adds excltement.
The tension and excitement built up gradually all day.
The news has caused great excitement among sclentists.
There was an air of excitement about the place.
The film was just getting exciting when we had to leave.
Shefound the idea terrfically exciting.
They exclaimed in horror at the price.
She exclaimed with delight at the sight of the presents.
She gave loud exclamation of delight.
The possibility of error cannot be absolutely excluded.
Unlawpully obtained evidence is not automatically excluded from a criminal trial.
By excluding children from pubs we are effectively excluding many parents.
Women were excluded from the council.
Many local people felt excluded from decisions that affected their own community.
Don't revise a few topics to the exclu sion of all others.
The recording deal is not necessarily exclusive.
The band can record material for other companies as well.
These products are exclusive to our shops.
The school is expensive and necessarily exclusive.
He ook uson an excursion to the ruinedcity.
The children provided a convenient excuse for missing the party.
She seized on every excuse avoid doing the work.
He became moody and unreasonable.
Katherineat the slightest excuse.
He had no excuse for being so late.
She made some feeble excuse about the car having broken down.
You dor't have to ‘malke excuses for her (= try to think of reasons for her be2 haviour).
T'm afraid Tll have to make my excuses (= say I'm sorry, give my reasons and leave).
Her mother's illness provided her with anexcuse tostayat home.
She ‘had to find a valid excuse for leaving the room.
He made up a rather lame excuse for the work being late.
The political crisis s being used as an excuse to dock peaple’s pay.
He's run out of excuses for not tidying his room.
He invented a pathetic excuse about losing his watch.
If's just an excuse for a party.
He was executed for treason.
The movement was beautifully executed.
The fribunal ordered the execution of 42 coup plotters.
Executions were carried out in the prison yard.
If caught, the men could face execution.
She was taken prisoner and suffered eventual execution.
The judge had granied a stay of execution.
She was charged with obstruction of @ police officer in the execution of his duty.
The contract gives a female executive maternity leave rights.
She is a member of the party's national executive.
Conservatives are by tradition believers in a strong executive.
Small businesses are expressly exempted from the requirements of this legislation.
Pensioners are automatically exempt from prescription charges.
This income is totally exempt from taxation.
The bill gives sensitive police files a blanket exemption.
These goods are subject to exemption Jfrom tax.
They enjoyed exemption from customs duties ‘on goods to be used by themselves.
The exemption which applies to home.
There are parking restrictions in the city centre with exemptions for disabled drivers.
You may be abie to apply for exemption from local taxes.
John never does any exercise.
Stop frequently to rest during exercise until you are fitter © PHRASES a form/kind/type of exercise, lack of exercise Lack of exercise is arisk factor in heartdisease.
Remember t0 do your ‘breathing exercises every day.
You can devise your own exercises tomusi.
Intheend it proveda pointlessexercise.
This isnota purely academic exercise: it should haveareai impact on the way we work as a department.
Roleplaying situations allows a finer assessment to be made than in pen and paper exercises.
The whole consultation process wasjusta cynical political exercise.
After a successful pilot ex.
Carry out, conduct, perform The company has just carried out a major cost-cutting exercise.
Before embarking on any exercise, youshould conducta cost-benefit analysis.
In The seminar was a valuable exercise in information exchange.
Half the regiment was away on exercise.
Managers arefree to exercise their discretion in these cases.
The all- ‘powerful steering commilttee continued to exercise control.
You need to prove that the company’s representativefailed toexercise due care.
She was hot and breathless from the exertion of cycling uphill.
Diescl exhaust containsa lotof soot.
The swimming had completely exhausted him.
The experience had exhausted her Pphysically and emotionally.
The funds are nearly exhausted.
Their limited re- ‘sources were quickly exhausted.
Ieave sb The row had Ieft him physically exhausted.
He fell into bed utterly exhausted.
She was taken to hospital suffering from exhaustion.
He was hollow-eyed and seemed very close to exhaustion.
Two of the horses collapsed with exhaustion.
In~ He el silent, with his head bowed in exhaustion.
She was faint with exhaustion.
This list is by no ‘means exhaustive.
The library has a policy of mounting changing exhibitions.
By 1914 Picasso hod held one- man exhibitions in England, Germany and Spain.
The museum hosted a big exhibition of her work last year.
They plan (o stagean art exhibition in nearby town.
The mayor will open the exhibition next week.
The Mappa Mund: will go on permanent exhibition at Hereford Cathedral.
The exhibition openst the Tote Gallery in July.
Theexhibition runsfrom 11 Aprilto 5July.
National Gallery, Washington, next month.
The exhibition includes drowings by Rembrondt.
The newwing will provide 20 000 more squarefeet of exhibition space.
Hundreds of firms had exhibition stands.
The king went into exile after the overthrow of his government.
Ive in They joined the many other Armenians living in exile.
He still Hhopes toreturn from exile one day.
She hod spent 40 years in exile.
Dante died in exile from Florence.
The family was exiled from France.
He wasexiled to Siberio.
Few of these monkeys still exist in the wild.
He argued that ideas do not exist independently of the langucge that expresses them.
Cid's actucl existence is not in doubt.
Since her illness, other people had become shadowyand had noreal existence for her.
The peasants depend on a good harvest for their very existence (= inorder tocontinue tolive).
The mere existence of these strange creatures fascinated him.
In The idea of God in nature has been in existence for as long as human beings have worshipped.
The organization cameinto existence ten years ago.
If sou jump into a black hole you will get torn apart and crushed out of existence.
There wasa fear that the club might go out of exlstence for lack of support.
The theory assumes the existence of a “meritocracy —that there is equal opportunity for all.
He didn't beligve in the existencecf God.
The girl's parents continued to ignore her very existence.
Deep down I esented his existence.
Climate changes threaten the continued existence of the species.
The school owed its existence to the generosityof oneman.
The company's existence depends on continued grouwth.
Darwin viewed the struggle for existence as ‘being the major promoter of evolution.
He lived a hand-to-mouth existence in the less attractive areas of London.
He claimed to be able to remember a previous existence.
They eke out a precarious existence foraging in rubbish dumps.
She headedfor the nearest exit.
Do not leave bags lying around which could block the emergency exits.
They moved to the exits.
She turned on her heel and made what she hoped wasa dignified exit.
At he roundabout, take theexit for Swindon and Bristol.
Tvaffc lights control the exit from the M®at Newbridge.
The hotel charges quite exorbitant prices.
Thefirm s look: ing to expand its operations overseas.
The store ‘has helped expand the British cheese market by encouraging small dairy farmers.
The number of managers has expanded m expectation from 700 to 1300.
The village has expanded into toun.
The co pany was now set for major expansion.
The board decided to embark on aggressive overseas expansion.
The economy is still shouwing healthy expansion.
The design of thefrontpockets allows for expansion.
The company s set for further expansion into niche areas.
The rate of expansion.
She confidently expects to win.
My parents fully expect us to get married.
Jirm ot the concert.
We can expect to see an improvement in the weather over the next few days.
It wowld beunreasonable toexpect them to do all that work for free.
You can hardly expect to learn a foreign language in a few months.
You are entitled to expect certain minimum standards of accommodation.
This kind of behavfour is to be expected from a tuo-year-old.
An accident can happen anywhere, at any time, just when you least expect it.
Many children startwith low ex.
Helghtened expectations for educational progress had nat been realized.
The plaintiff is aged 30 and ‘has a normal expectation of life.
There were disappointed expectations all round.
This realization of our dreams surpassed even our wildest expectations.
There s stilla general expectation that married couples will have children.
You have unrealistic expectations.
Ler approach to welfure sought ta lower people's expectations and impose work discipline.
Her new car has nat lived up to her expectations.
The reality of the holiday fell short of our expectations.
The rise in share price confounded expectations.
Once the govern- ‘ment’s promise was made, popular expectations soared.
Againstall expectations, she was enjoying herself.
The building work was completed on time, contrary to expectation.
What should you do when an employee's performance is disap- ‘pointing and belowexpectation?beyond~ The scheme has Dproduced results way beyond expectation.
He had been successful beyond his expectations.
Thearticle was written before the election result in the clear expectation of @ Labour victory.
We have high expectations for her future.
Wecertainly had a reasonable exPpectation of success.
The various categories of aperating ex- ‘penditure are broadly in line with expectations.
The government found it expedient to relax censorshipa little.
Finally, the great expedition set off Jfor the long journey to the Holy Land.
International 7he British agreed to a joint expedition with the French.
In response, Charies Visent a punitive expedition to Brittany, raping and killing the populace.
She was about (o embark on a ‘majar expedition.
They plan to launch an expedition into the mountains.
The expedition returned only twa weeks after it had left.
On 21 January the expedition reached the South Pole.
On anithe ~ She was out on a shopping expeditlon.
He led a military expedition against the n noun rebels.
They were forcibly expelled from their farm by the occupying authorities.
The group is calling for higher expenditure on education.
The rext two items refer to actual expenditures incurred, rather than estimated needs.
Pay constitutes two-thirds of all current expenditure.
Capital expenditure can be firanced by borrawing; operating expenditure shouldnat.
Public expenditure was running at 44.
Item You may wish to take out a loan for @ major item of expenditure.
The budget provided for expenditure of §2 billion.
Expenditure was set at £16 million.
Expenditure was put at 100 million euros.
Make sure you ‘have enough in the current account to meet expenditure.
Both brands had heavy advertising expenditure.
Total expenditure amounted to opproximately £1 million.
The ridge was built at publicexpense.
Incur They went to all the expense of redecorating the houseand then they moved.
Their visit put us to a lot of expense.
She had to meet the expense herself.
The results are well worth the expense.
They had Io repair the damage ot their own expense.
The garden was transformed at great expense.
The accommodation package includes admission to the golf course at no extra expense.
Relocated employees received grants towards incidental expenses like buying carpets.
Meetings, and the timefor them, area considerable management expense.
Medical expenses can be quite high if you are not insured.
You can daim back the tax on legitimate business expenses.
The guides are unpaid except for basic expenses.
Any out-of-pocket expenses incurred on the firm’s business will be reimbursed.
He was given a sum of money to cover his travel expenses.
They are claiming expenses for travel and overnight accommodation.
You will have to pay income tax on the rent you receive, although you can deduct expenses such as insurance.
You can expect to receive com: pensation for allexpenses arising out of the accident.
Put the cost of the meal on your expense account.
Her suit looked extremely expensive.
Holidays in this country are getting very expensive.
Adding these safety features would make the cars too expensive.
Ifound thefood very expensive.
Some of these legal cases are enormously expensive.
Giving every patient an ‘annual antiflu injection would be prohibitively expen: sive.
Ingly Walls are generatty the greatest source of heat loss and correspondingly expensive (o tackle.
She didn't get paid much but it was all good experience.
Both candidates for the presidency were short of relevant experience.
She wanted to broaden her experience in international affairs.
Theveteran goatkeeper will bring a wealth of experience to the team.
We're in for adifficult couple of weeks, if past experience is anything to go by.
Experience is subjective and very hard to measure.
It isa matter of common experience that disorder will increasef things areleft to themselves.
Choose illustrative examples from the children's everyday experience.
There are few areas of human experience that have not been written about.
In her book, she draws on her first-hand experience of mental illness.
Weall learn by experience.
The book is based on personal experience.
We know from experience that hot obJects are painful 0 touch.
In my experience, very few people really understand the problem.
He has directexperience of poverts.
The use of drama can motivate students by allowing them to share a common experience.
Early experiences shape the way we face up to and deal witherises in later life.
She has been through a very traumatic experience.
It could take him years to get over this expertence.
Retiving past experiences can retease powerfuifeelings that have been pent up 100 long.
The ‘novelis based on his experiences in the war.
It was quite an experience being involved inmaking atelevision programme.
He hadn't directly experienced the fighting in thedcity.
Immensely, really, vastly, very The staff are all highly experienced.
She's very experienced in looking after children.
His efforts involved thought experiments and analogies, rather than detailed experimentation.
Further experiments will be carried out to verify this result.
If the conditions are ot right, the experi- ‘mentuwillnotwork.
Theappropriate concentration of the drug is best determined by experiment.
The animals seemed healthy during the experiment.
In an'the~ In these experiments, chilling is necessary.
The team carried out experiments on cancer tissue.
They experimented successfully on the plants todiscaver disease resistant varieties.
We have experi- ‘mented with various different designs of kite.
She is a world expert on butterflies.
Experts agree that a balanced diet is the key to great health.
He's an expert at getting his own way.
Each area of the curriculum should be led by a staff member with appropriate expertise.
Ps may lack the necessary expertise 10 scrutinize legislation effectively.
They met regularly to share experiences and develop their collective expertise.
She has great expertise in these matters.
This project buflds on the existing expertiseof staff at the centre.
Professor Simpson pro280 vided expertise in engineering.
We need to draw on the professional expertise of a lorgenumber of teachers.
The teachers would be available to share expertise and offer advice.
She brings expertise on general financial and technical matters.
The variety of technology requires a wide range of expertise.
The reasons for theaccident have not been fully explained.
This partly explains why he wasso late.
This phenomenon can be easily explained.
The doctor explained padently what the treatment would be.
Trie general principles behind the method used are explained clearly and concisely.
We've already paid, I explained tersely.
I'm late, but I con explain why.
Let me explain what I mean.
She tried (0 explain about her fears and anxieties.
She explained the plan to me very carefully.
This goes some way towards exPlaining the hostility betueen the two groups.
The most likely explanation is that his plane was delayed.
Therewas noapparent explanation for the attack.
There's sure to be a perfectly innocent explanation for all this—though I admit it looks bizarre.
There is no generally accepted.
It's the only explanation that ‘makesany kindof sense.
The causal explanation ‘must be thatold age causes poverty, not that poverty causes peaple to be old.
Heonly offered a partialexplanation for his lateness.
She launched into a detailed explanation of every aspect of her work.
An explanation is clearly called for.
She wrote to the company demanding an explanation.
Her success has been so remarkable as to defy explanation.
The simplest explanation Jor his achievements lies in his greater ability and superlority over his contemporaries at university.
Itself No single clear explanation emerged from the experiments.
Another quite plausible explanation presented itself.
Tve worked with them before, you see he added, in explanation.
She e/t suddenly ard without explanation.
He entered into technical explanation about software and programming.
He provided no explanation as to why he was late.
There is probably some perfectly logical explanation for their behaviour: ~from We are still waiting for a full explanation from the teacher concerned.
The men left quicklywith noattempt at explanation.
The sudden increase in sales s easily explicabe.
His behaviour isentirely explicable.
The delay is partly explicable by the rocdworks.
The differences in the children’s achievements were not wholly explicable in terms of their social backgrounds.
We think such information should be made explicit and not left vague.
Our orders were quite explicit.
The government has been quite explicit about its intentions.
She told him he needed t be more creative, without being explicit as to what this meant inpractice.
The chemicalis liable to explode on contact with water.
He suddenly exploded into action.
She literally exploded with anger.
His courage and exploits were legendary.
The workers are ruthlessIy exploited by their employers.
The firm has been successful in exploiting new technology (o the Jull.
The architect has cleverly exploited new materials and building technigues.
She was keen to exploit her discovery commercially.
The team were quick to exploit their competitive advaniage.
The party's avowed aim was to struggle against capitalist exploitation.
Migrant workers are vulrerable to exploitation.
Emergent democracies created markets that were ripe for exploitation.
Extensive explor- ‘ation was carried out using the latest drilling technology.
Exploration activity slowed during the 1970s.
My ideas on semantics needed more careful exploration.
In the afternoon you'll be free to explore a little on your own.
These questions have not been fully explored yet.
In detail This idea is worth exPploring in some detail.
The film useJully explores some of the issues surrounding adoption.
There was a mufled explosion somewhere on their right.
The floar shook witha distantexplosion.
The shock waves of this political explosion engulfed the whole of Europe.
The buildup of gas caused a small explasion.
Bomb disposal experts carried out a controlled explosion on the suspect package.
The explosion came 20 minutes after a coded warning to the palice.
The explosion occurred just after midday.
Theexplosion shook nearby homes.
In an/the~3peaple were injured in the explosion.
Ir the 16605 a veritable explosian of major scientific publications took place.
They planted explasives in the tunnel.
Race is a highly explosive issue.
The political situation is potentiatly explosive.
He was an early exponent of multimedia in theclassroom.
Important, main, major, principal, staple Coco- ‘nutis one of the staple exports of the islands.
In 2001 total exports were valued at §2 billion.
The US share of world exports hos declined.
Invisible Earnings from the sale of banking, insurance and other services to foreigners are described as ‘invisible exports'.
Increase, rise Ol exports have risensteadily.
Exports totalled $10 billion in 2002.
Oil exports account for nearly 80% of the country’s foreign earnings.
This is where the fruit is packaged for export.
Lastyear 2 000 birds were exported from the island.
The country exparts sugar to Europe.
She lifted her chin in gesture that deliberately exposed the lineof her throat.
These drawings must not be exposed to the air.
He was publicly exposed asa liar and a cheat.
He was autclassed by an Aston Villa side that cruelly exposed his lack of pace.
The general public is constantly exposed toradiation.
Depletion of the ozone layer leaves the earth's surfuce increasingly exposed to harmful radiation from the sun.
The country became highly exposed to the vagaries of international markets.
The postponement of difficultdecisions left the gavernment dangerously expased to American influerice.
The garden was very exposed to westerly winds.
She suffered amassive exposure to toxic chemicals.
Banks will seek to minimize thelr expos.
The report recommends peaple to avoid prolonged exposure to sunlight.
The magazine aims to give exposure 1o the work of women artists.
Perhaps I havenot expressed myself veryweli.
She expresses herself mast fully in her paintings.
He expressed hisanger openly.
Iy Students must learn to express a point of view cogently and with clarity.
The poet eloguently expresses the sense of lost innacence.
Many patients feel unable to express their fears.
Her statement was clear expression of her views on this subject.
The report gave concrete expression to the fears of many immigrants.
Just because there is nodirect expression of prejudice, that does not mean the prejudice does not exist.
The new concept of form reached its fullest expression in the work of Picasso.
Modernism was the characteristic expression of the experienceof modernity.
Horvestfesti- ‘valwas the occasion for the collective expression of a community's religious values.
The method isto listen to the music.
Only in his dreams does he give expression to his fears.
Suddeny her deeper feelings de- 'manded expression.
She suddenly felt happy beyond expression (= sohappy that she could not express it).
Freedom of expression (= frecdom to say what you think) is a basic human right.
Words, as a means of expression, can be limiting.
The children’s faces all wore thesame roptexpression.
ShecareJSully puton her most innocent expression.
Catching a Jieeting expression on Lucy's foce, she persisted with her question.
His face never changedexpression EXPRESSION - VERB alter, change His expression changed toembarrassment.
His expression sftened when he saw her.
Her expression hardened into one of strong dislike.
Her expression betrayed nothing of her thoughts.
His grim expression told her it would be useless.
She had been watching the expression that crossed his fce.
Without~‘Go on, ' she said, without expression.
He wore an expression of anxiety on his foce.
He looked at her with a very stronge expression in his ees.
Until the mid-nineteenth century, ‘Italy’ was Justa geographical expression.
He fends (o use strange expressions like I's enough tomake a cat lough'.
She os a wonderfully expressive voice.
His art is deeply expressive of emations.
Copying from another candidate results in automatic expulsion.
The government ordered the immediate expulsion of the two men.
Several pupils now fuce expulsion.
Next year we will greatly extend therange of goods that wesell.
Thhe repayment period will be extended from 20yearsto 25years.
They're building an extension to their house.
He's applied for an extensicn of his visc.
Shegot an extension for writing her essay.
The blame lies with the teachers ond, by extension, with the Education Service.
The overcll extent of civilion cosualties remained unclear.
The railuay network had reached its greatest extent in route mileage.
We do ot yet know the extent of her injuries.
The victory undertined the extent to which Prussia had become a major power.
The government sought to play down the extent of the problem.
The parik s about 20acres inextent.
To an extent (= 10 some degree) East-West distrust continued throughout the war 1o a .
He had withdrawn from the company of his friends to ar alarming extent.
Angevin Empire comprised most of western France.
To some extent, we are all responsible for this trogic situation.
The pollution of the forest has seriously affected plant life and, to a lesser extent, wildiife.
Hidden behind a plain exterior isawonderfulhotel.
There isan abundance of fine sculpture, bothon the exterior and inside.
Her calm exterior hides very passionatefeelings.
His biuff exterior belied a connoisseur of antiques.
Bekind his cool exterior lurks a reckless and frustroted person.
Beneath her charming exterior lies a very determined woman.
The species was presumed extinct.
The numbers of these animals have been falling steadily and they arenow almost extinct.
The island's way of lifeis doomed to extinction.
He was known for run' ninga brutalextortion racket.
There was no money left over for luxuries or ittle extras.
Regular guests also get added extras like free room service.
The extract is taken from a long essay.
He read out @ brief extract from his book.
It won't be easy for them to escape extradition.
The new government will seek the extradition of the suspected terrorists.
The smuggler is in prison tonight, auweiting extrodition to Britain.
His lawyer announced that he will fight extradition.
There is no extradition agreement be.
What makes it so extraordinaryis that the experts had alldismissed her theories as rubbish.
It seems altogether extraordinary.
He had a wildly extravagant Iifestyle.
You mustn't be so extravagant with other people’s money.
Itsadifficult place to live because of itsclimatic extremes.
He went to the extreme of adulation, describing Churchill as the greatest man who ever lived.
If's foolish to take any dieting to extremes.
At the extreme, somenuclear waste s so radioactive it has to be kept isolated for thousands of years.
There has (o be a solution between these extremes.
His voice was scornfuul In the extreme.
She wasalways kindlyand generous to the extreme.
These photographs show extremes of obesity and emaciation.
She goes from one extreme to the other; andeither worksvery hard or does absolutely nothing.
Some of his views seem rather extreme.
This is hero-worship at its most extreme.
She was laughing from the sheer exuberanceof the performance.
She just looked at me with those big blue eyes of hers.
His eyes were wide with horror.
Her darkringed eyes showed that she hadn't slept.
The dog’s hungry eyes were on my sandwich.
He drew the curtains to make sure no prying eyes saw what he was doine.
Heturned hiseyes to thedoor when he heard the handle turning.
She averted her eyes from his Jace.
Skiers wear goggles to protect their eyes from the sun.
He held up the newspaper (o shield his eyes from the sun.
She reached up and tried to gouge her attacker's eyes.
She looked her father straight in the eye and answered his question truthfully.
He seemed unwilling tomeetmy eye.
Her eyes dilated with horror at what she had done.
Her eyes flew open in surprise.
His eyes rounded in mock amazement.
My ees stream when I chop onions.
His eyes held sceptical gleam.
She laughed, her eyes alight with excitement.
His eyes blazed with menace.
His eyes reflected his anguish.
Her eyes glazed over when Isaid Iworked in dictionaries.
His eves hardened as he remembered how they had laughed at him.
Her eves prickled with unshed tears.
My eyes followed his every move.
Their eves locked together in a battle of wills.
His eyes darted from Juce to face.
She tried the door, her eves rolling in panic.
He let his eyes roam round the scene.
His eyes drifted over to Helen's chair.
His eyes scanned the room as he entered.
Her eyes dropped 10 her lap as she an swered.
His eyes crinkled up at the corners as he smiled.
Her eyes squinted against the brightness.
Myeyes strained to make anything out in the darkness.
His eyes bulged in fury.
His narrow eyes betrayed his impatience.
My eyes took in every detailas Tentered the house for the first time in twenty years.
Rapid eye movements frequently accompany dreaming.
The doctor gave me eve drops to put in three times a day.
It is essential to wear some formof eye protection.
There were tearsin hiseyesas he spoke.
The sun wasin myeyes and [ couldn’t see the road.
The fide was out, leaving nothing but mud as far as the eye could see.
Before our very eyes, the bird snatched the Sish from the plate and flew off.
He couldn't keep his eyes off the glrl siting opposite him.
Ske rolled her eyes heavenwards when she scw what her husband was wearing.
Vglinttwinkle in sb's eye He looked at me with a twinkle in his eye.
The stare detective had his eye on a group of boys wha were acting suspiciously.
Could you keep an eyeon my bag whileIgota the toilet?keep an eye open/out for sbisth (= watch out for) I walked round the shops, keeping an eye out for bargains.
Out of the corner of her eye, shesaw Horrystortforward.
From the moment he set eyeson her he knew that he wanted to marry her: to/with the naked/unaided eye The planet should be visibleto the nckedeye (= without atelescape).
The team went through their paces under their trainer’s critical ee.
If [ hadn't seen his Jump with my own eyes, I would ‘never have believed it possible.
The children's cagle eyes spotied an ice-cream shop half a mile away.
Her skillat working with wood is coupled to @ keen eye for design.
He saw his students with new eyes now that he had a child of hisoun.
She can danowrongin hiseyes.
In the eyes of the law his knife was an offensive weapon.
You need ta look at your website through theuser’s eyes.
Tomy eye, the windows seemoutof proportion.
She viewed the findings with a criticaleye.
He looked of thedesign with the eyeof anengineer: PHRASES In your mind's eye (= your imagination) He pictured the scene i his mind's eye.
The chil dren eyed the cakes greedily.
She ‘spent hours in front of the mirror; plucking her eyebrouws.
It rise His dark eyebrows lifted in surprise.
She lifted one eyelid to see what he was doing.
She watched him from behind ‘halfclosed eyelids.
Falling eyesight finally forced her into an old people’s hame.
Owls have good eyesight.
The government's policies ‘havedestroyed the social fabric.
Her fuce was flushed after her run.
She had a plump, pretty face.
Her ‘short hair suited her elfin face.
She turned her face away.
He tilted her face up to his.
The ball hit him in the fuce.
His eyes were sunken in his gaunt face.
She put ‘some potder on her face.
Fromthe stage, he looked down at sea of faces.
His face was set and hard.
The news for the company isn't good, judging from the long faces in the boardroom.
She looked at the honest, open face of her husband.
His face remained impassive, sotrong was his self-control.
He searched her face for some clue as to whot she meant.
Her litle face lit up when I gave her the present.
The fuce smiled benignly at him.
Her face crumpled and she started crying.
His face cleared and she smiled back.
Her face darkened with anger: His face set in grim lines.
The father's face softened as he hugged his litle boy.
Jack's face flushed with embarrassment.
Her face paled with fright.
Her fuce contorted in pain.
Her face betrayed no emotion atall.
On sb's~ She had a big smile on her face.
We stowly climbed the steepfoce of thecrag.
She placed the cards face downuwards on the table.
Social deprivation is the unacceptable face of capitalism.
She has another important facet toher personality.
The use of computers has greatly focilitoted the firm's ability to keep accurate records.
We are looking to upgrade the existing facilities.
The toilets and other communal fucilities were in a shocking siate.
The ratlway station was criticized for its lack of disabled facilities.
All bedrooms offer private focilities (= a private bathroom).
Facilities include a large indoor pool, jacuzzi and sauna.
The archive offers a central facility for cataloguing and indexing data.
The report warns that there are no back-up fucilities if the reprocessing plant breaks down.
First National Burk loan is an extremely flexible facility.
The cheque book fucility allows for a minimum withdrawalof £200.
The device has a fucility for storing any sound you like.
He played with great facility.
She showed an amazing fucility for mind-reading.
Incontrovertible, inescapable, observable, obvious, plain, straightforward, true, undeniable Zhe police have 0 support their case with hard fucts.
These are all incontrovertible fucts.
It is @ well-known fact that girls do better than boys at school.
The mere fuct of your being there will arouse their suspicions.
We haven't got all the focts yet.
She already knew the facts she needed.
These fucts have not yet been proved.
Historians must first select the fucts that they present.
The job of the teacher is not simply to impart fucts.
I'm not making excuses—I'm just stating a fact.
She wouldn't ac cept the fuct that she had lost.
I'm afraid you'll have to Jface facts.
She'll never marry you.
Hedoesn't seem ableto graspthis bosicsuct.
Students ‘need time to assimilate the fucts.
No one can deny this fuct.
This approach ignores the fact that people, not computers, commit crimes.
If he was bored, ‘he managed to hide the fuct very well.
The recentimprovements should not obscure the fuct that general standards are still fur too low.
Just stick & the Jacts.
He knew their bitterness stemmed from the fuct that he was in charge.
We sut miserably in the Db, lamenting the fuct that our dry clothes were a 60-mile bus journey away.
Thefuct remains that we arestill fwoteachers short.
She was happy, apart from the fact that she could not return home.
Due (o the fact that they did ot read English, the prisoners were unaware of what they were signing.
The findings are not surprising, given the Jacts: .
France; in fact, not far from where you're going.
We learned several inferesting fucts about elephants.
It's plain matter of fact.
No, as a matter of fuct DIl be staying for another two years” facts and figures presenting all the facts and figures to the meeting the fact of the matter A new car would be wonderful but the fact of the matter is that we can'tafford one.
The fucts of the cuse are quite straightforward.
It is an unpalatable factof lfe that the most deserving people do not often achieve the most success.
The Loch Ness Monster: fuct or fiction? the facts speak for themselves (= further explanation about sth is unnecessary because the facts prove it is true), get your facts right/wrong If you're going to make accusations, youd better get your facts right.
When making your presentation, itis important to haveall the fucts at your fingertips (= tohave the information you need and be able to find it and use it quickly).
In actual fct, it's very easy.
Voluntary work was particularly important in view of the fact that women were often forced to give up puid work on marriage.
This is regarded as the crucial factor in dectding who should get priorits.
Money proved to be the deciding fuctor.
Jactor is her parents' refusal to cooperate with the police.
The appeal judges spoke of strong mitigating fuctors in the case.
The closure of the mine was the single most important factor in the town’s decline.
Look for the common fuctor in all these cases.
External fuctors in the production of disease include pollution of the environment.
Studies have established that smoking is u risk factor for cancer.
Into account 4 variety of other factors will be taken into account.
The outcome will depend on a number of factors.
They had to closethe factory down in the recession.
The factory closed down ten yearsago.
Heworks in a shoefactory.
Try to keep your account as factual as possible.
He is not in full possession of all his mental faculties.
Arts, English, law, medical, etc.
Mostchildren have food fads at some time.
Hopes of a peace settlement were fading fast.
It was impossible for her 1o fude quietly into the background.
Al else seemed to Jade into insignificance.
The smile faded from his face.
Their woices faded into the distance.
In, be passed in The larvae may be excreted in the faeces.
In the~ The amount of blood in the faeces was measured.
The show didn’t just Jail, it failed spectacularly.
The song can't fail to be a hit (= will definitely be a hit).
In Doctors are failing in their duty if they do not warn their patients of the dangers.
The authorities have totally failed to address this problem.
Vanity is her worst failing.
The attempt ended in abject failure.
Initial Initial failure was folloted by ‘unexpected, if modest, success.
War is theultimate foilure of public communication.
All her efforts were doomed to failure.
He was tooproud to admit ailure.
There s high fuilurerate with thistreatment.
Fear of failure should not deter you from trying.
John had a long hisfory of academic fallure.
Thefilm wasoneaof therare Jailures in his career.
The venture proved a costly failure.
Her parents had long since branded her a Jailure.
Thedecision to withdraw funding represents afailure of imagination.
Ket Business failures rose by 30% in 2001.
He was sopale shethought he was going to foint.
He would fuint at the sight of blood.
She Jainted from lack of air.
She almost fointed with shock.
His voice sounded faint and fur auay.
Thecity is holding its nnual trade fair in May this year.
She is organizing next year's book fair.
I'll give you ten pounds each to make it fair.
If's important to be scrupulously fair when marking the final exam paper.
It seems perfectly Jair to me.
Thatdoesn't seem quite foir.
That seems fair toal sides.
In ()~ In all fairness to him, I should say thot most of his story s true.
They were all treated with strictfairness.
In theneedfor fairness in opplying these rules ~to The new system of waiting lists should guaranteefoirness tooll patients.
Children have a very strong sense of fairness.
She showed a touching faith in my ability to resolve any and every difficulty.
Business crime undermines public/aith in the business system.
He distrusted politicat systems and placed his faith in the genius of individuals.
She did not pin much faith on their chances of success.
If the com- ‘bany can retain its customers' faith it could become the market leader.
Her faith in human nature had been badly shoken.
These reforms are totally untested and will require a leap of faith on the part of teachers.
He found faith gradually, rather than in a sudden conversion.
They believe that people can come to salvation through faith.
After her son's death she lost her faith in God.
Manchester United's greatness was an article of foith for him (=a belief that could not be questioned).
The study of other world foiths is an important part of religious education.
Catholic, Jowish, Muslim, otc.
Christians were allowed to proctise their foith unmolested by the authorities.
Their aim was to keep alive the traditional Jewish faith.
The judge did not find any bad faith (= intention t dowrong)on the partof theddfendants.
Asclub manager he was not prepared to keep faith with (= keep a promise to) the ployers who had falled him.
We printed the report in good foith, but ‘havenow learnt that it was incorrect.
He has been a very faithful friend tome.
She took a bad fall while out riding.
The doctor says she's hed @ very nasty fall.
Luckily a bush broke his fall.
The chances of surviving a fall under a train are almost nil.
He was hurtin a fallat his home yesterday.
She broke her neck ina fall from e horse.
This triggered the recent dramatic fails on the Tokyo stock exchange.
Share prices suffered a slight fall yesterday.
The opinion polls show significanfoll in her popularity.
This figure represents a fall of 21% on the same period lastyear.
The fall in age ot first marricge ‘occurred during the second half of the 1gth century.
She fell heavily (o the ground.
The rein wos Jalling steadily.
Hefell overboard in heavy seas.
She lifted her arm, but then et it fall.
One f the kids fell into the river: on the snow felling on the fields onto Loose bricks were falling down onto the ground.
He stumbled and almost fell.
The house looked as if it was about tofalldown.
Expenditure on education fell by 10% last year.
Thenumber of people unemployed has fallen from fuwo million to justover oneand a half million.
Out of over 400staff there are just 14 that fall into this category.
That topic falls outside the ‘scope of this thesis.
This falls under the heading of scientific research.
This case falls squarely within the committee's jurisdiction.
Their claim was pa.
Lagos is the capital of Nigeria.
Ella’s enthusiasm rans folse.
She managed a horribly false smile.
Helen's voice soundedslightly fulse.
The economy is beginning to Jalter.
She gained international fameas a dan.
Largely unknown in his lifetime, Mendel's discoveries earned him posthumous fame.
He was enjoying his newfound fame.
Win She found fame on the stage.
He shot to fame in 1997 when he won the US Open.
Is adventure brought him both feme and notoriety.
The restourant's fume spread quickls.
In 1934, when at the height of his fame, he disoppecred.
T'e town's main cleim to fame is being the home of one of the strangest buildings in the world.
After this concert she was Jfirmly on the road to fame and fortune.
The place felt Jaintly familiar to me.
Hisface was instantly familiar; even after all those years.
The kitchen smelled warm and inviting and blessedly familiar.
You will need to be thoroughly familiar " with our ~procedures.
Ouver the years, he ‘gained greater famillarity with the culture and way of Iife in the countrs.
He treated her with the easy fomiliarityof an equal.
We are a very closeknit family and support each other through any crises.
Immediate We've only told the immediate fomily (= the closest relations).
He belonged 10 an old-established family.
We all Knew her so well that we felt she was almost part of the family.
Mans of our students come from poor familtes.
She married into a wealthy family.
This ‘painting has been in our family for generations.
They prefer tostay in their home country because of fomily ties.
The job wouldr't really fit in with my fomily commitments.
These problems occur in all families.
The support of family and friends s vital.
Ialuays wanted to have a large family.
They gotmarried last year and plan tostart a family (= bave children) soon.
Itisdifficult for them toearn enough to feed their families.
Average family size has decreased since the Victorian era.
Against a background of impending famine, heavy fighting took place.
Four million people are now facing famine.
When famine strikes, it is often women and children who suffer the most.
The school was ‘made famous by its association with Charles Dickens.
The city isjustly famous for its nightclubs.
He was famous as both a teacher and a scientist.
The town became famous for its lace.
I'm a big fun of Iialian food.
The singer says her dad is her number one fan.
For armchair fans back home, it was one of the highlights of the Sydney Olympics.
The actress is asking the court to protect her from an absessive fan wha is making her life a misery.
The goal was greeted by jubilation from the home fans.
There were clashes between rival fans after the match.
The big band sound of Syd Lawrence and his Orchestra will delight fans.
Fars will not be disappointed.
Soccer fans converged on the capital for the cup final.
More than 40000 fans turned up for the 12-hour event.
Over 25 000 fans applauded both teams off the field.
Hundreds of fans besieged the star’s hotel.
He's areal football fanatic.
Severa! of the managersdonned fancy dress for the office party.
Many of the marathon runners compete in foncyadress.
The new building was apened with greatfanfarein January 1695.
The wolf growled and bared its sharp fangs.
The snake sank its fangs into its victim.
This cake tastes fantastic.
We had a really fantastic holidas.
The senseof froedom was absoluteIy fantastic.
It may sound rather fantastic, but it the truth.
The plot gets increasingly fantastic as the filmgoes on.
Most of what they told us was pure Jantasy.
She dismissed the idea as a wild fantasy.
She had woven a whale fantasy about living in a cottage by the sea.
Children can act out their fantasies in a secure environment.
Mychildhood fantasies were finally fulfilled.
He was able toplay out his fantasy of pop stardom.
Shehad a fantasy about going to liveona South Pacific sland.
The idea belonged in the realms of fantasy.
She felt she had entereda worldof fantasy.
Thewhole procedure has becomea complete farce.
Franch, Whitehall (both figurative) It was like a Whitehall farce the way I was sent from department to department and everyone said it was someone else’s job to help me.
I'm afraid you will have to pay the Julljare.
He faces charges of dodging taxi fares.
Gost (sb) sth The return fare will cost you less than two single tickets.
Children travelat half fure.
The company is promising reductions in fares.
Court trials involving famous people are the daily fare of news papers.
The band's music was standard rock fare.
Chinese, English, French, etc.
She should fare better in this competition.
He fared well against his main rival.
The court dignitaries made their farewells 1 the emperor.
They exchanged fond farewellsat the railway station.
This famous warplane is about to make its farewell appearance.
In~ Heraised his hand in farewell.
Shewas sorry to bid farewell to Portugal.
The whole story was impossibly far fetched.
She lives on the next farm.
Ten model farms have been set up 1o showcase modern production’ methods.
The area combines a working farm and a farming museu.
During the war few men were left to wor' the farm.
The children had to work on the family farm.
The farm lies on the hills above the lake.
Farm produce, including fruits and grains, was thelr principal export.
The EU has decided to cut farm subsidies.
The police are investigating a fire ata Jfarm near Whitby.
The myth of happy and contented animals dotwn on the farm is now far from the truth.
He had lived on that farm all his life.
Intensively The land has been infensively Jfarmed.
They farm organically now.
This is all very fascinating said Wilcox, ‘but T've got a meeting in five minutes.
Ifind the natural world endlessIy fuscinating.
What was fascinating to me was the way the creatures moved.
The sea holds a fascination for all children.
He ‘had a deep fuscination with all forms of transport.
These exotic plants exert a fuscination all of their own.
She shared his fascination for motorbikes.
He looked on in horrified Jfascination as the ship drew nearer to therocks.
She watched in fascination as the cat pouncedon the mouse.
She developed a fascination Jor these creatures.
He found great fuscination in her ‘quiet, frank manner.
Seeing over a thousand species of fish is part of the fascination of the reef.
This theoy, though recent, is more than a passing fushion.
The store sells everything from sports clothes (o high fashion.
She wore a powdered wig, s was the fashion of the day.
Black is always in fashion.
Pessimism has become the fashion.
Careful spending has goneout of fashion in our consumer society.
Introduce, set, start He seta fashion for large hats.
Ive given uprying to keep up with the latest fashions.
Flared trousers were a Jashion statement of the seventies.
She started her career asa fashion model.
Her summer collection 100k the fashion world by storm.
She spoke in French after (- copying) the fashion of the court.
In Fashlons in art come and go.
The palazzo represents the height of architectural feshion for the mid-17th centurs.
The inspector insisted the meeting be held, in true spy novel fashion, in the open air.
Application for the course can be made in the normal fashion.
They celebrated their win, in time-honoured fashion, by spraying champagneeverywhere.
Wehad Justgone out when, in typical fashion, the rain came down.
He hasa small vocabulary and is only able (o express himself in a limited fashion.
Karpou struck back in no uncertain fashion to win the seventh game.
Students becorme Srustrated with learning verbs parrot fashion.
Costs and revenues are assumed fo behave ina linear fashion.
The descent of the footpath starts in easy fashion.
Sothey became/riends, after a fashion (= tosome extent).
Why are they behaving in such a ridiculous fashion? In .
The troops embarked in orderly Sashion.
Furnishings of this sort are now highly fashionabe.
These cars are no longer fashionable ‘among the young.
All members of the religious community keep these fasts.
In the evening the people break thelr fust.
Her pulse seemed very fost.
He came round the corner blindingly fast.
We fastened all the windows securely.
She fustened the Ppapers together with a paper clip.
It wasr’teasy to lose puppy fat when Murm fed her on stodgy home cooking.
If you eat oo much you will put on fat.
She was middle-oged and running to Jot.
Exercise kelps you burnaff excess fat.
Claims that anti-cellulite creams can break down fatare controversial.
The waistline is usully the Sirst area where fat accumulates.
His body wos oll muscle, with not an ounce of fat.
He had great rolls of Jfat round his middle.
Put thechicken in hot fat and braise thoroughly.
This cheese has a lot of fot in it.
If's easy to cut down on fat without changing your diet to0 much.
She has cutout fataltogether in an effort to lose weight.
Trim any visible fat off the meat before cooking.
Remave the turkey from the pan and drain off the excess fat.
Fats contain more calories than carbohydrates for the same weight.
The only ‘sound from the kitchen was the lamb fat spitting.
Despite its very low fot content, it i deliciously creams.
Try to cutout the foods that aremaking you fat.
The disease s potentially futal.
This kind of accident is almast aluways fatal Jor the pilot.
Her disregard of this advice was ultimately fotol.
Tuxincreases have proved fatal to the nation's ‘business community.
Underrepresentation is the likely Jfateof small parties.
The ultimate fote of the captured troops is unknown.
She broke her ankle before the big match, then suffered thesame fate month later.
He fuces a grim fuie if he is sent back to his own country.
He had no desire to share the fate of his executed comrades.
Shemanaged toescape the fateof the other rebels.
The condemned men were resigned (o their fute.
He had signed his confession and sealed his own fate.
An extraordinary general meeting to decide the company's fute will beheld on Thursday.
The generals abandoned the men 10 their fate.
He will learn of his fute in court tomorrow.
The convicts ‘awaited their fote in prison.
In store for sbisth ‘They werewarnedof the dreadul fute that awaited them if ever they returned to their homes.
Worst of all was the fate that befell the captured rebel general.
The fate of the African wild dog ‘hangs in the balance (= is uncertain).
The Jjury held the fate of the accused in their hands.
Obeying her parents’ wishes for her lifeseemed a fate worse than death.
He believed that the universe was controlled bythewhims of a cruelfate.
Such coincidences are almast enough to make one believe in fate.
It would be tempting fute to say that we will definitely win the game.
Fate decreed that she would never reach Americo.
He secreily ‘hoped that fate would intervene and save him hoving to mest her.
Only weeks after her previous injury fate struck again, leaving her unable to compete.
Anne accepted the cruel hand that Jfate had dealt her.
Fate took a hand in (= influenced) the outcome of the championship.
It seemed a cruel wwist of fute tha the composer should have died 50 young.
The new job had come at Justthe right timefor him.
Asa single father; he found it a struggle bringing up three children.
Elena’s brother was a surrogate futher to her kids after her husband died.
She kept the books that had belonged to her beloved father.
He has just become the proud father of a baby girl.
Thelr musician father encouraged their love of music.
She followed her futher into the legal profession.
She inherited the urge to travel from her jather.
Some of his students regard himasa father figure.
Boland, a father of two, was arrested on charges of theft.
In your father's footsteps He followed in his father's footsteps and became amotor mechanic.
Compassion fatigue among donor counries means there is less money for worthy causes.
The right vitamins help you cambatfatigue.
In She had to stop work when fatiguesetin.
The ‘man was shivering with fatigue.
If's his oun stupid fault his car was stolen—heshould have kept it locked.
Thepartyatfaultina court case usually pays the other party's legal costs.
Many of the soldiers died through his fault.
Having made an error of judgement she was not without fault in the matter.
He is blind to his son's fuuits.
She was pre- ‘pared tooverlook his faulss.
There is a basicfatlt in the design of the engine.
The engine has a serious fault.
Thecar scon developed another fault.
They'vefounda major fault with the electrical system.
When she tested the recarder she could find nofault with i.
My ‘mather did nathing but find fault with my schaolboy manners.
He's deliberately picking fault with the meal to geta redction on the bill.
Pportanyfault directly to the phone company.
The fault lay in the structure of the economsy.
Diabetes is caused by a fault in the insulin ‘production of the bods.
She wasalways finding fault with his manners.
For allifs fauts (= in spite of the faults), we love this city.
Even tennis champions sometimes serve doublefaults.
As apersanal favour tome, pleasedon’t releasemystoryto the press.
Icame here (o ask you a favour, a bigfavour.
Althoush Iam friends with the tennis ace, I don't expect any favours fram him on court.
Rodrigo accepted the favours bestowed an him by the new king.
Do yourself a favour and cut your credit cards in half.
Il return the fuvouroneday.
Traditionally, vigilante ‘groups have found greater favour on the political right.
He stood in high favour at the court of Lews the Pious.
The bishop was said to have enjoyed the King’s favour.
Her political views have not found favour in recentyears.
As an examiner, she showed na favour to any candidate.
In The committee came down in favour of setting upa national body.
The High Court found in favour of the plaintiffs.
Environmental conservation generalIy works in favour of maintaining the status quo.
The golf tournament went in the Americans’ favour (= they won).
In~of He is strongly in favour of capltal punish- ‘ment.
Early in his musical career he abandoned blues in favour of jazz.
This piece of software has two ‘points in its favour: it's fust and inexpensive.
She s too papular with the public to find much favour with the critics.
Depth of training is Iooked upon with favour by many employers.
Westrongly favour reform of the system.
The prime minister is thought to favour an early referendum on the issue.
He favoured some individuals atthe expenseof others.
News coverage should notfavour one party over another favourable adj.
She gained a highly favourable impression of the company.
His proposals met with a ‘broadly favourable response.
Conditions are now favourable for skiing to The court's judgement was favourableto their client.
This painting is a particular favourite of mine.
This movie is my all-time fa- ‘vourite.
The woods surrounding the estate were afa vourite for family walks.
He isa favourite among.
The song is a firm favourite with their fans.
She is odds-on favourite to win a coveted Academy Award.
The horse is an even money favourite.
The Brazilians stil look firm favourites to take the tile.
Jopanini is second favourite for Saturday’s race, behind Bright Spark.
She denied showing favouritism to any of her students.
He resigned over accusations of favouritism.
Our faxmachine differentiates between an incoming fax signal ‘andavolce caii.
Therewas still time fo receive copies by fux.
Our fears proved unfounded.
The boy showed nofear.
Doctors havevoiced Jears that we may be facing anepidemic.
She managed to overcome her fear.
The ‘people live in fear of attack by the bandits ©FEAR - VERS abate, subside When she heard the news, someof her fear subsided.
Nobody refused for fear of losing their job.
He ran away in fear.
He lied out of fear: through~ The pupils obeyed through fear of punishment.
She stared at him without fear.
They havea terrible fear of failure.
The men set off in fear and trepidation.
The sound of gunire struck fear into the hearts of thevillagers.
This disease is greatly feared.
You have nothing to fear from him.
Wefeared for thelr safety.
He was fearful of every shadou.
She was fearless in her attacks on public JFgures.
Some of them doubted the feasibility of the proposal.
The local council called Jor afeasibility study into the new road scheme.
It's perfectly feasible to Pproduce electricity without creating pollution.
The women were busy preparing the wedding feast.
The migrating salmon provide a delicious feast Jor the brown bear.
Dragging the fully laden boat across the sand dunes was no mean feat.
He has pulled off an extraordinary feat in completing the voyage single-handedly.
She was capable of remarkable feots of endurance.
He emulated the feat of the legendary athlote Jesse Ouens.
The ow! fluffed out its feathers.
Its Jeathers were ruffled by the chill breeze.
These walks became regular featureaf his day.
Selfdeprecation isa recurring Jeature as Stevenson talks.
The one redeeming feature of the scheme was its low cost to the council.
The house retains most af its original features.
Thesite hada numberof interesting features.
She's got very delicate features.
The magazine runs aregular feature onethniccooking.
Next month they will publish a specialfeature on computer books.
Women's magazines regularly feature dietsand exercise regimes.
His wor is featured in a special documentary tonight.
The school has been featuredon television.
Reading over his past speeches, you'll see that housing, public health and education feature strongly.
Garlicfeatures prominently in her recipes.
He proposed a loose federation of small, local groups.
They were ‘now ready (o createa national labour federation.
The federation broke upin 1989.
In afthe ~ th six republics in the federation within a/the~ He urged them to remain within the federation.
The children were starting to get a bitfed up.
He still sounds preity fed up about every.
We had to pay a nominal fee tojoin the club.
Their Jees are quite reasonable.
Many fox odvisers now offer fixed fee Interviews.
Send the form, together with the appropriate fee, to the Land Registry.
We will be taking active steps to collect the outstanding fees.
Employees are reimbursed Jfor any legal fees incurred when they relocate.
He agreed to waive his usualfec.
She nezotiated a fee of $1800 week.
All fees are payable when the invoce is issued.
The fee includes the cost of testing the electric wiring.
The ‘admission fee has gone up.
The firm's consultancy fee income rose by 3% last year.
For a small fee, anyone can use these fucil ities.
Wenow charge fee for museum entrance.
Let usdiscipline ourselves sa s to helpfeeda hungry world.
She fed the children on baked beans and fish fingers.
The ani- ‘mals are fed with hay and gross.
He saw the new baby as just anather mouth to feed.
The bears feed voraciously in summer and stare energy asfat.
Egrets and a solitary grey heron were busily feeding.
The seals feed mainly on fish and squid.
Into The data is fed directly into a computer through This feeds the paper through to the printer.
Iimmediate, instant Zhewriter gets no immediate feedback ‘and simply has to imagine the reader’s reaction.
They will be given feedback on their performance.
I'vehada lot of very constructive feed- ‘back fromthe students about this.
He feels very stronglyabout a lot of issues.
It was a good feeling to be arriving home again.
He suddenly had a terrible sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach.
I've got a tight Jfeeling in my stomach.
The gen eral feeling of the meeting was against the decision.
He felt a wonderful warm feeling come over him.
She was leftwith the feeling that hedicinot care.
Ireally resent the way he treated me.
Tknow how you feel).
I'm going to miss you.
The feeling’s mutual feel exactly thesame).
She experienced a whole range of feelings.
He still harboured feelings of resentment.
She was lucky that she had suffered no more than hurt feelings.
He finds it difficult to express ‘his feelings.
P'm sorry if T've hurt your feelings.
Wedidn'ttell Jane because we wanted to spare her feelings.
The debate aroused strong feelings on both sides.
It was the practical aspect of life that heightened her feelings of loneliness and loss.
Personal feelings don't come into it -we have to do what's right.
It makes nodifference to my feelings Jor you.
Someone's got to lase.
She spoke with feeling about the plight of the homeless.
You have no feeling for the sufSerings of others.
Shestill had a lot af feeling for David.
Their aim was to stir up feeling against the war.
There was a lot of bad feeling between the two groups of students.
After the accident he lost all feeling in his legs.
They have managed 10 recreate thefeeling of the original theatre.
Light colours createa jeeling of spaciousness.
Girls may be given fancier names because this fits in with a traditionalIyfeminine image.
She leaned over the fence.
The children were left to fend for themselves.
The country was inferment.
Itattacks its prey with greatferocity.
We watched the ferry dock.
The last Jerry sails at 4p.
Ferries runevery hour or so.
We went by night ferry.
We caught the ferry across the river.
Dundee and Tayport ~forfto the ferry for ltaly ~trom the ferry from Ramsgate to Dunkirk fertile adj.
He spread Jertilizer on thefield with a rake.
He took up the cause with evangelical Jervour.
The school has taken portin thefestival since 1997.
He's appearing ot a local folk festival tonight.
The family al ways observes the Jewish festivals.
She managed to discppear during thefestivities.
Blood feuds and general gangsterism added f0 the local crime rate.
The incident started a farilyfeud.
They had a long-running feud over money.
Election fever suddenly ‘gripped thenation.
She was in a fever of anxiety about him.
Peaches area good source of fibre.
Mechanicol filters drow air through flot, coarse fibres.
It isn't just a lack of moral fibre thot leads toa rising divorce rote.
Wear underwear that ismade from naturalfibres.
The television world wasa notoriously fickle one.
He has written over 20 works of fiction.
She still tries to ‘maintain the fiction that she is happily married.
Fuct and fiction become all jumbled up in his reportof therobbery.
The names of the shops are entirely fictional.
His story is wholly fictitious.
They sworean oath of fidelity to their king.
She was fidgeting nervously with her pen.
We had fo walk across @ ploughed field.
People were working in the Sields.
Despite the war, they continued to work the fietds.
He planted fields full of sunflowers.
Allof them ore experts i their chosen field.
In althe~ There has been no solid research in this field.
Wewenton a geology fleld trip.
She manoged to head the Jield across the finishing line of the London Marathon.
They lead the field in home entertainment systems.
Include sb The strong field includes three world record holders.
His superb fechnique puts him head ond shoulders ahead of the field.
You will need 1o create separote Jfields for first name, surname and address.
We'll divide the Profitfifty ifty.
Wewent ifty fity on the meal.
The chances of reaching the survivors in time are about fifty-fifty.
Suddenly the argu- ‘ment developed into a real fight.
There's nothing he likes so much as a good fight.
It was a foir fight and Stephen won.
They inadvertently got mixed up in free fight involving some 20 people.
Hewas Killed during a series of running fights outside a disco.
In a straight fight the crusaders usualIy won; in skirmishes, the Soracens often overcame their more numerous opponents.
Idon't know who started the fight.
Andy was drunk end spoiling for ¢ fight.
The fight was broken up by a teacher.
The dog fights took place every Sunday morning.
Afightensued which leftone man dead.
He killed a man in a fight.
They nearly had a fight over who should move first.
Jans ~with They got Irvolved in a fight with some older Boys.
She died at the age of 43ofter a brave fight against concer.
Coal workers ore determined to putupafighttosave their jobs.
Doctors hove now Joined in the fight to make this treat- ‘ment available to all.
Now heis focing his toughest Sfight yet—back to fitness after a series of injuries.
She said they would continue their fight to find a cure for Alds.
She just gave up her fight for life.
The fight for justice goeson.
Union leaders know that they have got a real fightan their hands.
The team put up a good fight (= they played wel) but were finally beaten.
This will beastraightfight between Lobour and the Conservotives: the other parties are nowhere.
The fight for supremacy in the sport s on.
Jight (o the finish, the result may not be known until all the vates have beer counted.
She now has a fight on her hands (= will have to play very well) to make it through to the next round.
No doubt Ferguson wants his team to make a fight of t.
He did not believe that the enemy was ready tofight.
They fought bravely gainst the enemy.
They fought for controlof the island.
The jeweller wasstabbed ashe tried tofight the robbersoff.
She fought hard against his strong grip.
Riot police fought with militants demonstrating in supportof theuprising.
Jforafair shareof the funds.
The second half was keenlyfought, but neither side managed toscore.
The resL dents are fighting tooth and nail to stop the new development.
It is time to fight back against street crime.
They are committed to fighting against racism.
The children will fight over quite smallthings.
The sword and mace were favourite weapons for hand-to-hand fightin.
Fierce fighting broke out omong the refugees.
For neariy fuo months the fighting raged.
Ever if the fighting dies down, no answer ls in sighto the political risis.
He was badly wounded during the fighting.
There has been renewed fighting ‘between the government forces and therrebels.
The rate of inflation has now reached double figures.
The government has just released new unemployment figures.
These figures don't add up.
Lotsof different figures were being bandied about.
The industry remains in the doldrums, according 1 official figures out today.
Jwas never very goodat Jigures.
He was a familiar figure in the local pub.
They were uisited by the unlikely figure of Bill Clinton.
The seated figure in the corner beckoned me over.
She's still got a lovely figure.
He cut a dashing figure in his uniform.
She's kept her figure after all these years.
Youneed to watch your figure.
Vegetables hardly figure ot all in their diet.
This marn did ot figure omong the suspects.
In The issue figured prominently in our discussion.
The company keeps secret Jileson allitsemployees.
Personnel filesare kept insecure storoge.
Yourapplication will bekepton file (- inafile).
He had compiled a file of largely circumstantial evidence.
The details of the incident will be entered into the file.
The police have opened a file on the case.
The Jill on the murder was closed five years ago.
She closed the file and put it aside.
Police have reopened the Jfileon the missing girl.
It is important to update customer files.
She wen (o the filing cabinet and took out a file.
Ill check the iles for any information on thecase.
Jfileson~ Allthe details of thetransaction areon ile.
The police already have thick file on that family.
When talking about a new file, not a back-up file or a copy, the correct verb iscreate.
You need a special password to access this file.
The fles are stored in Moc format.
The names and addressesare all keptin computer files.
These notes should be carefully filed away for future reference.
He has now formally filed a complaint against the police.
The long line of mournersiled silently past.
Kly, rapldly A the moment, most reservoirs are filling fast.
The sails began to fill.
He seemed tofill the room with his presence.
The school is filled to capacity—uwe simply can't toke any more students.
The drawers were all filled to the brim.
She's only eight years old and ‘she's already got five fillings.
The dentist said shewould do thefilling straightaway.
She thought the film fur 100 violent to show to children.
We went (o an awful film last night.
She makes children’s films.
The film was shot on location in Kenyo.
The film was heavily edited for screening on television.
The film was finally released after weeks of profest byreligious groups.
The Jfilm cameout lost week.
The film manages to capture the mood of the times.
The film contains explicit scenes of violence.
Thefilm depicts immense courage amid the horrors of war.
This flm tells the remarkable stor of a disabled aclor.
The film opens with a bird's-eye shot of London.
The film has plenty of whot film people callbankability'.
His fiim credits (= the films he has made) as director include Mood Music’ and ‘Lies'.
We stayed for the film credits (= the names of people invalved in the making of a film) to see who the music was by.
He was killed when a film stunt went wrong.
They built a massive film set of an airport.
The newsaluays contains several film reports.
Tyrannical Hollywood film moguls ruled their stors' lives.
The scramblefor the film rights to her next novel has already begun.
In althe~ There s a great car chase in the film.
They captured the incident on film.
Queen Victoria ~of They've just started shooting a Siltm of the novel.
Fast film would be best for such action shots.
In thedarkroom they found that only haif the film had been exposed.
The books were covered ina thin film of dust.
The controversial experiment involved secretly filming a group of children.
The serial was filmed on location in Italy.
Blue Ridge Mountains filthy oa.
He got throughto the grand final of the competition.
If we play well, we hope to make il to the final.
Scotland met Wales in the final at Twickenham.
Zhe evening ended with a grand finale of fireworks and music.
The match had a thrilling finale, with three goals scored in the last five minutes.
This victory provided fitting fi- ‘nale toa brilliant season for theclub.
You may require bridging finance until the sale of sour oun property is completed.
She struggled to get the necessary finance for her training.
Several banks are providing finance for the ‘housing progromme.
Local ‘government finance officers found the tax very difficul to administer.
Our family finances are not very ‘healthy at the moment.
The company's finances are looking a bit shaky.
They are not sure how they will raise the finances to go on the trip.
Buying a new car need not puta ‘strainon your finances.
The new roads will be financed privately.
Interesting, real, remarkablo, significant, spectacular, startling 7he letters were a real find and James went on to publish two ‘volumes of them.
Cotswoldsis helping archaeologists discover what Iife was like in Roman Britain.
Stray finds are more commonly discovered than whole new sites.
To date the site ‘has yielded many interesting finds.
The original findings conflict with more recent findings.
Students were asked to conduct a survey and write up their findings in the form of a report.
The findings of the commission have not yet been made public.
They will present their findings to senior police officers.
The findings are based on interviews with more thar 2 000 people.
Our findings relate to physically rather than the visually handicapped pupils.
The findings from the case study school may apply to schools elsewhere.
Iindicate sth, point toltowards sth, reveal sth, show sth, suggest sth Our findings point to a lack of training among social services staff.
Our recent findings are in line with those of an earlier study.
The findings led to the conclusion that .
The research findings will provide practical assistance for teachers.
Similar findings were ‘made in Spain.
Justity The fucts of this case donot justify afinding of negligence.
Theappeal court upheld a finding that the agreement was unlaicful.
Independent Commission Against Corruption ~in favour of The court madea finding in favour of the defendant.
Heauy fines were levied on motoring offenders.
Drivers risk heavy fines for driving without licence.
The offence carriesa maximum fine of £500.
In~Theclubs struggling topay £75 000in finesto thefootball league.
Any company found to be breaking these rules will be heavily fined.
Hegot fined £200for parking illegally.
Lknew thateverything would turnout finein the end.
Your voice sounds absolutely fine.
Thispaper'snot very good quality, but t's fine Jor rough work.
George looks fine not.
If's furned out fine again today.
Koop, remain, stoy Let's hope it stays fine for the wedding this afternoon.
Her hair is very fine.
The ornaments had been put out of reach of the children's prying fingers.
She took off his bandages with gentle fingers.
Her nimble fingers undid the knot in seconds.
His clumsy fingers struggled with the buttons.
It was them!, she cried, pointing an accusing finger at the boys.
The enquiry pointed the finger of blame ot the driver of the crashed coach.
The man drew a finger across his throat in @ threatening gesture.
Everyone put their fingers in their ears when the shooting started.
The protester was jabbing a finger aggressively at a policeman.
She raised a finger to her lips to ask for silence.
He was drumming his fingers nervously on the arm of the chair.
We were swaying and clicking our fingers in time (o the music.
He snapped his fingers and the waiter came running.
The child needed treatment after trapping her finger in the car door.
He crooked a Jinger to tell us to go over to him.
He held up his ‘hand with the fingers extended.
The nurse pricked myfinger to get some blood.
Although she Knew lots of people, she could count her friends on the fingersof one hand.
The Jinger of suspicion was pointed at the chicken served for lunch.
She dug her fingernails into my neck.
Actually, I leaving you', she said, continuing to exam: ine her fingernails.
She was careful not to leave any fingerprinis.
The car is being examined for Sfingerprints.
The investigator questioned him and took his fingerprints.
The sus pect's fingerprints have been matched with those found at the scene of the crime.
His best finish was 11th in the Hungarian Grand Prix.
It was the perfect finish to a wonderful day.
The runners came round the bend for a sprint finish in the home straight.
The rules of the game were ‘changed to provide a more exciting finish for the television audience.
Her car suffered from gearbox trouble, butshe wasstillinat thefinish.
Several runners needed medical attention at the finish.
They fought bravely right to thefinish.
He was in the lead from start tofinish.
The wall and floor finishesareallof the the higheststandard.
This paint has a gloss finish.
With our new tool for putting up wallpaper you can geta perfect finish eversytime.
This trim really does give the gar- ‘menta professionalfinish.
The steel roof has been coloured to match thefinish of the original wrought iron.
Make sure the surface is clean and smooth before the Sfinish isapplied.
Sand the wood (0 fine finish using steel wool.
She had just finished dressing when the telephone rang.
He finished off by welcoming new arrivals to the school.
Let me just finish what I'm doing.
He finished by telling us about his trip to ‘Spain.
The evening finished with a few songs.
Have youfinished with the vacuum cleaner yet? Ineed it.
Alonternwas knocked over and the barn caught fire.
Groups of rioters attacked and set the police headquarters on fire.
Strong winds fanned the fire.
Frustrated ambitions can fuel the fire of anger and resentment.
He joined the crowds of men and women fighting the fire.
Firefighters struggled to control the fire.
The factory was destroyed ina fire started by arsonists.
Thefire burntfor three days before it was finally contained.
In 1925 disastrous ire swept through the museum.
The fire gutted the bullding, leaving just a charred shett.
We have regular fire drills to ensure that the staff know how to evacuate the building.
The thief got away down the fire escape.
Firgfighters have ‘now managed to bring the fire under control.
Kindle, light Kim had managed to kindle a little fire of dry grass.
Putsome morewaod on the fire.
When we g0 on sofari we like to cook on an open fire.
Although it was summer a fire burned in the great stone hearth.
Kindle, light We had Dlenty of dry wood, so the fire lit easils.
The fire was beginning to diedown.
The fire smoked instead of burning properly.
The interior was only litby the golden glow of theffre.
The com- ‘mandospushed forward under the covering fireof their artillery.
Several soldiers were Killed in friendly fire due a mistake by allied forces.
The troops opened fire on the crowd.
She returned fire from behind the low wall.
We were under ‘constant fire from enemy snipers.
The minister of transport came under fire (= was heavily criticized) Jor forcing increases in rail fares.
Unfortunately he was in the line of fire (= between the pecple shooting and what they were shootingat) and got shot.
She fired blindly into the mass of shadows.
Whitlock purposely fired wide.
Off They fired off a valley of shots.
He grabbed the shotgun and levelled it, ready to fire if anyane entered.
She fired a revolver at her attacker.
He Jfired the gun into the ar.
The police fired on protesters in the city centre.
Fire ‘alarms have been installed in the building.
Dial 999 to collthefire brigade.
The fire brigade have put out a blaze ina local past office.
Firefighters were called 100 house in Chaucer Avene.
Firefighters from three counties tackled a warehouse blaze.
Firemen rescued adriver trapped inthe ureckage of his car.
Every room in the house has afireplace.
Bevery careful when lighting Jireworks.
He could fuce a firing squad i found gullty of the charges.
She wasexecuted by firing squad.
Many died in front of thefiring squad.
She set up her own sofaware firm.
They are likely to merge with a bigger firm.
The firm was taken over by a multinational consulting firm.
She hired a firm of private detectives tofollowhim.
Local firms are finding it difficult to compete in the international market.
The wellestablished firm closed down with the loss of 600 jobs.
Note at ORGANIZATION > Spectal page at BUSINESS firm adj.
Exercise is important if you want your muscles to stay firm.
Jo held firm: nothing else would do.
We stand firmon these principles.
She engaged first gear and pulled off.
As he moved into first the gear-dever knob came off in his hand.
Put the car into firstand pull off slowly.
There wos something wrong with the gearboxand Thad todrive all the way home infirst.
She did Philosophy and English Literatureand;gota doublefirst.
In Hegot a first in modern history.
While one of you gives first aid, the other should call an ambularce.
In At least one member of staff should betrained infirst aid.
Medics were bringing casualties to the irst-aid post.
Catch, land He landed one very bigfish.
He keeps tropical fish.
The fish aren't biting (= biting at the bait) today.
Remove the skin and fuake the cookedfish.
This fish tastes funny.
Local fishermenare protesting about the latest government regulations.
This stretch of the river is renowned Jorits goodfishing.
One of his hobbies was flyfishing.
She has been big game fishing off the coastof Kenya.
He goes ishing every weekend.
Just below tha bridee is a good fishing spot.
The two countries have signed a new fishing agree- ‘ment.
Fishing rights are held by the local angling club.
Ecuador announced a bon on fishing for shrimps.
It all sounds very Sishytome.
There was definitely something fishy going on.
He banged his fist loudly on the table.
The mar was shaking his fist at us through the windouw.
He swung his fists wildly ot his attacker’s head.
She drew back her fist and threwa punch at his nose.
In your~ She was holding a hammer in her fist.
He suffers Jfrom fits of depression.
He suffers from a brain disorder that can trigger off conuulsive fits.
The fits usually occur at night.
She hurt her arm during oneof her fits.
Infinto, fall into She collopsed in afit of laughter.
The cold air brought on one of his coughing its.
When her coughing it was ‘over shecontinued to speak.
We need (o achieve the best fit between the staff required and the staff evoiloble.
The door was a poor fit and didn't open properly.
The Jersey is a comfortable fit—not too tight and not too loose.
File away any excess metal until a snug fit is achieved.
The shoe has a special strap to ensure correct it.
The formula gives a much better it to the experimental dato.
Heargues that there isa lack of fit ‘between our system of values and capitalism.
The pencils fit neatly into this box.
The Screws fitted the holes exactly.
The top of the box fitted badly and some of the contents had spilled out.
That chair should fit into the room easily.
These tuo pieces of wood ft together to make the base.
The wasteunitis designed tofitunder thesink.
In, into, onto, over, under, etc.
Your experience fits you perfectly for the job.
Go for a little jog to keep fit.
Exercising once week is not enough to ‘make you fit.
He seemed fighting fit and ready for action.
John isn'’t fully fit yet after his operation.
The doctor said shewas now fitfor work.
She looks really fit and well.
The newspaper did not ‘see it to publish my letter (= and 1 criticize it for that).
You must do as you think fit (= but I don't agree with your decision).
The food was notitfor human consumption.
It was a meal fit for a king (= of very good quality).
In no fit state He's so angry he's in no fit state toseeanyone.
Hendry s back to match fitness and is expected toploy.
You need a good level of physical Sitness for this sport.
He has attained peak fitness this season.
Regular exercise helps to maintain physical fitness.
Improve, increase, ‘work on A special trainer has been brought in to work on the tennis player's fitness.
The coach has given ‘him until next week toprove hisfitness.
First, determine your present Jitness level.
Ske’s a bit of a itness freak.
She goes running every night.
Walking is good for ‘health anditness.
Our bathroom fittings are casy to install.
It seemed entirely fitting that she should be wearing black.
James about his daughter's death.
There is no quick fix 10 the breakdown in negotiations between the two companies.
The new software incorporates many bug fixes and product improvements.
He gels withdrawal symptams if he hasn'thad hisregular fix.
Ilent her themoney toget her outaf afix.
Fix the bars in pos ition with the screws provided.
Check that the boards are all securely fixed.
His gaze was rigily fixed ahead.
The club was fined for not fulfilling its fixtures at the weekend.
There are plans to make the race an annual fixture.
The golf club has staged many international fixtures.
The new conductor is now a permanent fixture in the orchestra.
Schumacher took the chequered flag to win his fourth Grand Prix of the season.
The crowd all waved flags as the president came past.
She ran along, ‘her arms flailing wildly.
She has a natural flcir for longuages.
His designs are all right, but he lacks artisticflalr.
Never smoke or use spray paintneara naked flame.
Ignite, spark (often figurative) His childhood interest in the game had ignited a flame of pasion for football.
They triedto rekindle the flames of romance.
She felt a flame of anger flicker and grou.
The flame burnt brightls.
Flames leapt from the burning ‘house.
Orange fiames were alreads licking round the foot of the stairs.
Flames danced in the gas lantern.
The infuntry were equipped with flame throwers.
Al the historicalrecords have gone up in flames (= have been destroyed by fire).
The helicopter burstinto flames.
Oxygen tanks fuclled the flames.
Winds fanned the flames.
The aircraft was shot doun in flames.
He fought the Slames for two hours.
Men came with buckets of water and ‘began todouse theflames.
They watched the flames sweep through the old wooden barn.
The flames quickly spread and ensulfed their home.
The flames lit up the skyline.
These materials are highly flammable.
They decided to attack their enemy's southern flank.
West Ham exposed the right flank of Norwich's defence (= ‘showed that it could be attacked easily).
Green land down the~ a beautiful pass down theright flank on althe~ The army was attacked on the lef flank.
She wiped his eyes and nose with a wet face flannel.
The officer undid the flap of his holster anddrew hisgun.
He drew back the tentlap.
The pilot lowered the flaps s the aircraft come into land.
Having to cook Joreveryoneat Christmas put his mother ina real flap.
T've never seen her in a flap; she's aluways so calm.
The sails flapped wildly in the stiff breeze.
There was a sudden flare as a fuel tank exploded.
Radiation comes from the sunduring solar flares.
She felt a sudden flare of anger.
If they did not see a green flare in ten minutes, they were to launch the attack.
The ship's crew sent upa distress flare.
The bomber dropped a flare to illuminate the target.
Theflareto mark the startof the attack wentup at 0440.
They could seeorange flares burning in the distance.
Anger suddeniy flored in his eyes.
Violence flared up In the capital last night.
The ire flared into life again.
He felt a brief flash of jealousy.
She had a sudden flash of inspiration.
Try using the lash.
Her eyes flashed angrily.
Thestory is told in flashback.
When he climbed in the snow he always carried a silver flask of brands for emergencies.
She pulled out her flask and drankfrom it.
Wetook a flask of tea withus.
Even the prices of small bachelor flats are unbelievable.
They converted two rooms of their house into agranny flat for Tony's elderly mother.
They live in the nextflat.
The tall blocks of flats dominated the skyline.
They havea flat in Paris and @ house in Normandy.
The musician took a flat in a feshionable area of London.
The landlady found they had been illegally subletting the flat.
We got her a flat in the same block as ours.
In, occupy, stay in Our flat is one of the two occupied in the block.
She let herself into the flat with the spare key.
The flat is located in & moderndevelopment.
Ill meetyou backat your flat.
She lives in the top flat.
The house has now been converted into flats.
These birds liveon the coastal flats.
The key of E flat major has three flats.
The sea was atmaost completely flat.
Mendelssohn's Quintet in Bflat flattered adj.
Shefelt voguely flattered at the suggestion.
Thisstyleof dress s flattering to most women.
She falls for his flattery every time.
He thinks he can get his way through lattery.
She persuaded him with flatters.
It's got a very mild flavour.
Cofee takes on a flavour all of its own when enjoyed with freshly cooked pastry.
Delicate herbs Keep their flavour better when frozen.
The lemon juice brings out the natural fruit flavours.
Bay leaves should be broken to release their flavour.
Cooking the vegetable destroys its wonderful delicate flavour.
Enjoy the flavour of fresh fish.
The music festival ‘has taken on a distinctly German flavour.
The intervention of the anthorities gave union struggles a decidedly political flavour.
The children experienced the flavour of ‘medieval Iife.
She rotated around the departments to get a flavour of all aspects of the business.
The film captures the flavour of rural life in this area.
Vshow withan American flavour flavoured adj.
Thefood they eat is very highly flavoured.
This dish is flavoured with lemon grass and gariic.
This product contains only naturalflavourings.
Add a few drops of peppermint flavouring.
We dor't use any artificial flavourings in our products.
Unfortunately, this plate has a slight flaw in it.
Engineers have identified serious design flaws in the proposed nuclear waste dump.
The markets have exposed the fatal flauw in the government's economic policy.
Flaws have appeared in the new version of the software.
The study was methodologically Slawed.
Thisdrug is given to dogs to control fleas.
They were forced fo flee the country.
They turned and fled when they saw the gang of youths approaching them.
Se dropped the phone and fled from the ofJice.
Intofto They fled 0 Britain when the war started.
When the police arrived the burglars fled empty-handed.
She had tolee for her life when soldiers attacked her village.
The children fled in terror as the hay caught fire.
When danger threatens, collect your ‘possessions and flee like the wind.
Heoperated a small fishing fleet.
The fleet was mobilized and the country prepared for war.
The fleet was is very expensive tomaintain.
There were over 500 ships in the enemy fieet.
His shirt was 00 small for him and cut into the tender flesh at his armpit.
Peregrine falcons usually pluck the feathers and strip the flesh off their bird prey.
African hunting dogs will tear atthe flesh of their victim until t i weak.
Cook the duck until the Juices run pale yellow when the flesh is pierced.
The weapon tore into his flesh.
According (o Greek mythology, the minotaur would only eat human flesh.
In the Christian tradition, God is made flesh (= becomes human).
My flesh tingled as 1 got out of the ice cold pool.
The cary story made his flesh creep (= made him foel afraid).
The injury was only a flesh wound and would heal in ten days ar so.
In the centre of the painting there is a woman painted in biues, redsandflesis tones (= colours use to paint human skin).
Thousands of fans gathered to s the bandin the flesh (= seethe band in reality andnot justina picture).
She toas Jleshand blood (= alive/real).
Babies are ‘born not just as bundies of flesh and bone (= not simply living bodies without thoughts or feelings) but with already distinctive _personalities.
Pare the mangoes and cut the flesh away front the stone.
Cut the melon in half remove the seeds and scoop out the flesh.
Long trailing flexes are a serious triphazard.
Side cutters are useful for cutting electrical flexto length.
Police work involves a considerable degree of flexibility and discretion.
You have considerable Jlextbility In this job and can choose how to do things.
Flexibilityof labour was obtained through the break up of old trade union structures.
She had physiotherapy to restore the flexibility of hermuscles.
The new range of machines will bring flextbility to your business computing.
The courses are designed to_ allow maximum flexibility.
This will give schools greater flexibility in their use of resaurces.
Thereis a need or great erflexibility in the way the netuwork is managed.
We need tomake the working day more flexibl.
Human beings are infinitely flexible and able to adjust when survival depends on It.
My mother is fairly flexible about what time Inced.
With a flick of his wrist he removed the ash from the end of his cigarette.
Heat is available at the flick of a switch (~ instantly, by simply switching on the electricity).
His tongue flicked nervously across dry lips.
He casually flicked away some dust from his Jacket.
She flicked the ash off her cigarette.
His eyes ficked quickly aver the screen.
She snatched up her briefease and flicked it open.
She caught the faintest Sicker of amuserent on his face.
The secret police were determined to stamp out the last lickers of academic freedom.
The candle gave one last flicker and went out.
Shefelta brief flicker of jealousy.
He'll soon be here,”she thought, with a flicker of excitement.
The brief Jlicker of a candle flame caught our eyes.
Her nly reaction wasa slight flicker of her eyes.
European stock markets showed barely a flicker of interest in the election result.
He saw a Jlicker of light in the darkness.
The witness stared at the accused but she showed not a Sticker of recognition.
Her eyes flickered nervously in anticipation.
The lights flickered on and off.
His gaze flickered over her: PHRASES flicker into life The television screen flickered into life.
Katherine's eves flickered open.
The first prize is a return flight to Delhl.
The outbound flight was smooth but the return light was held up by six hours.
She flew into London on the last flight from Frankfurt.
The Wright Brothers made their first flight in the Kitty Hawk tn 1905.
This will be the last fight of the vintage aircraft before it is installed in the museum.
The bumpy Jlight brought ona bout of airsickness.
Theycaughtan early flight back to London.
Milan in the morning.
He asked her to book him on the next availableflight to Geneva.
The club has chartered a special Jlight from Manchester to Bologna for their fans.
The UN has suspended relief Jlights because of shelling around the airport.
The airline operates regular flights 1o Greece.
Gatuwick because of a bomb scare.
She was accused of planting the bomb that blew up flight 217.
Weneed your timeof arrival and flight number.
The flight time from Heathrow £ Marseilles is less thar two hours.
Your travel insurance compensates you for flight delays.
Thelight recorder should help to establish why the plane suddenly crashed.
They have persuaded the authorities to divert the flight pathof the military jets away from their village.
Jflight bound for Johannesburg during althe ~ Please reJrain from smoking during the flight.
She took a Jiight for Los Angeles.
They waited for the firstflight outof Lisbon.
They watched the young eagles take flight.
The wings vibrate during flight.
Don't get into the line of Jlight of the bees—you'd be sure toget stung.
The villa is fronted by a double flight of stairs.
The office s just round that corner and up ashort light of stalrs.
The army was defeated and the king put to flight.
As soon as they detected the cheetah the antelope took lght.
Left-wing opposition leaders, in flight from persecution, went across the border.
Jlight from danger ~into a flight into the unknown ~ to The story tellsof his flight from Eastto West Berlin.
He hardly flinched when he was_ hit.
She flinched inwardly as he took her hand.
She flinched visibly at the sight of the bods.
She flinched away from him.
She won't Alinch from speaking her mind.
He finched with the Jorcef the biow.
The athlete will have ‘one final fling (= participate in one final competition) before retirement.
With He had afling with hisneighbour’ swife.
In the dream my feet leave the ground and I start to float upwards.
Her woice seemed to float on the water as gently asaslight mist.
The government decided to allow the peso to Sioat freely.
Offenders were publicly flogged.
Heavy rainfall in the ‘mountains caused the floods.
This summer the region was struck by devastating floods.
The 'meadowland was inundated by heavy floods.
The flood caused widespread destruction.
The Sfioads are slowly subsiding.
Theriver was in full flood (= had flooded its banks).
Inundate sbisth She was inundated by floods of fan mall.
The liztle girl was in floods of tears.
The area near theiver is liable to flood.
Thevillage had been badly flooded.
His glass ell 0 the floor and broke.
Bookcases lined the walls from floor toceiling.
The offices occupy the two top Sioorsof the building.
The buildersarestill laying the floorboards.
Lift some loose floorboards to getat the pipes.
The wooden floorboards creaked as he walked down the corridor.
They said that ‘he kept his money under the floorboards.
She could ‘hear voices through the gaps in the floorboards.
The show was the biggest flop in TV history.
The concert may prove an expensive flop unless ‘more people decide togo.
Blend the flour with a little milk to make a smooth paste.
Sif the flour and salt Into @ bowl.
Bill signed on the bottom line with a flourish.
With a final flourish she laid down her pen.
The protesters have openly flouted the law.
Our shower doesn't work very well because of the poor water flow.
Big pension funds have a constan! JSlow of cash.
Squeeze the tube of sealant slowly to obtain an even flow.
We like to allow Jree flow of ideas in our company.
You must use a wide pipe (o ensure an adequate Slowaf water.
The company is trying to enhance its cash flow.
They tried to staunch the flow of blood.
The main Sflow of water has been diverted to @ new course.
The flow rate was measured at 9.
She joined the flow of immigrants to the coun tr3.
Changes in the flow of patients have reduced the number of beds available.
He was at the mercy of the ebb and flow of public opinion.
She tried to interrupt his speech, but he was already in full flow (= talking continuously and not thinking of stopping).
We falked, and the conversation flowed freely.
Wine and beer flowed freely.
The river flows quite fost here.
In a good production of the play, the action and the words flow naturally.
Some of these changes will flow directly from the legislation.
Imported food aid continued to flow in.
Blood was still flowing from the wound.
One day seemed to flow into the next.
Information flows continuously through the network.
They sell a few pot plants, but theymainly sell cut flowers.
The flowers were still tightly closed.
It has deep pink scented flowers.
It was the first year that the cactus had produced flowers.
Into If the winter weather is mild, plants may come into flower (0o earl.
The flowers arepollinated by insects.
Itwas Juneand the roses were in flower: + PHRASES a banklcarpet/mass of flowers The alleys wereadorned with banks of flowers.
The forest floor was acarpet of wild flowers.
The bush was absolutely covered in flowers.
Prices ‘have fluctuated wildly in recent years.
Traffic congestion fluctuates according 1o the time of day.
The number of boys at the school fluctuates around 100.
The number of unemployed fluctuates between tuwo and three million.
Flowers grow~ Tulips aregrown everywhere.
She breeds orchids in her greenhouse.
Autumn is the best time to plant peonies ig outlup, take out~ 'Dig up your geraniums before the irst rosts.
He stapped to smell the flowers.
She arranged the tulips ina vase.
He took her flowers and chocolates.
Daffodis grow wild in the mountains.
The spring flowers were just coming out.
Whattime of year do daffodils lower? ~smel ‘Some of these rases smell absolutely wonderfil.
You know i¢'s summer when the irst daisies open.
The petunias were already wilting in the hot sun.
Itwas April and the snowdrops were long over.
The number of students at a college can be subject to considerable fluctuation.
There have been quite wide fluctuations in oil pricesin recent years.
Sorme young children achicve great fluency in their reading.
Fluency in spoken English is essential.
Change your diet and drink plenty of fuuids.
Retatning excess fluid could be a problem.
I's a highly fluid situation.
There was a sudden flurry of interest in the book.
Hot drinks can cause sweating and hot flushes in the face and head.
She/elta dull flush of anger creep ing into her face.
The promise in his voice brought awarm flush to her cheeks.
Therewasa faintlush of colour on those pale cheeks.
He lushed scarlet with embarrassment.
Her face was flushed with embarrassment.
His heart gavea little lutter as the ladder slipped a couple of inches.
In, feel She felt a flutter of excitement.
They arrived ina flutter.
We watched the birds ying high above us.
The school provides focal pointfor the local community.
The company's restructuring is designed to give a sharper focus on key growth markets.
Cities have always acted as the principal Jfoeus of political life.
At this stage of the trial the defence lawyer often shifts the focus onto the victim.
Into This case has brought the problem of drug abuse in schools into sharp focus.
The question of compensation comes into focus.
Our primary focus this term will be on group work.
The focus has now shifted towards the problem of long-term unemployment.
She became a focus for all his anger.
He found he was now their main focus of attention.
Into When I got glasses suddenly the wholeworid came into focus (= became clear to seo).
The binoculars were not in focus (= were not showing things clearly).
The children’s faces are badly outaf focus (= not clearly shown) in the photograph.
The study focuses exclusively on secondary schools.
The attention of the news media was firmly Jfocused on the elections.
He inevitably focused on his own concerns, with only @ passing query about Joff.
Think of some questions that will help focus the discussion.
We need to focus upon the main issues.
The department undertakes highly focused research.
The study was criticized for being too narrowly focused.
She blinked and tried to focus.
The eye will automatically focus on the ‘small group in the foreground.
He knewthat Cariton could be an implacable Jfoe.
She had fought ‘many battles, vanquished many foes.
His newspaper articles criticized friend and foe alike.
She was unsure as yetwhether he was friend or foe.
Drizzle and patchy fog are forecast.
The town was shrouded ina thick blanket offog.
In, come down, descend, roll In A dense fog came down in the afternoon.
The Jfog had lifted by late morning.
We got lost in the fog.
Wedrove slowly througlh the fug.
In 7 wrapped thesanduwiches in kitchen foil.
She has used mosses as a oilfor the brightIy coloured flowers in the bed.
The troops were hidden by the deep folds of the ground.
The fabricfell in soft folds.
His face hung in heavy folds.
It was a sotitary spot in a fold betuween twohills.
The countryis now firmly back in the international fold.
The indigerous people were brought into the Catholic fold.
His father finalIy accepted him back into the family fold.
He defly folded the typed sheets and replaced them in the envelope.
Her hands lay gently folded in her lap.
Jfolded up the clothes and put them away.
Into She folded the clothes into neat bundle.
It the ordinary everyday folk who come t0 shop at this market.
He described the customs of the menfolk of his family.
Folks say that he isa hard man.
He is something of afolk heroin these parts.
The victory became part of sporting Jolklore.
Local folklore has itthat prehistoric men drove cattle over these cliffs.
According to popular folklore, ‘anyone who owns sucha picture will have bad luck.
Johnson finished first, closely fotlowed by Stevens and Higgins.
The dog followed obediently at her heels.
She followed blindIy, stumbling over stones in her path.
The next programme will follow shortly.
It does not necessarily follow that sleep loss would cause these symptoms.
Several conclusions follow on from his statement.
Follow my instructions very carefudlly.
The film follows the book: faithfuly.
Banks are expected 10 follow the building societies in raising mortgage rates.
His argument was dificult to follow.
She still has many loyal followers.
The myth says that he led a small band of followers toseek their fortune in distant lands.
The king was not powerful enough to command respect among his followers.
Tup of the range Scotches attract afunaticel following among whisky buffs.
She is writing a Jollowupto her best selling novel.
You will receive a follow-up visit from the person conducting theassessment.
They were attending hospital for follow-up treatment.
Weare planninga follow-up to today's event.
Suddenly she saw the jolly of it all.
These facts demonstrate the olly of the policy.
That would bean actof sheer Jolly! the folly of your ways They have finally scen the Jolly of their ways.
To sign away his rights tothe book would have been the height of folly.
She seems genuinely fond of the children.
I'vealways had a certain fondness for her.
Retail prices of staple foods remain_unchanged.
Our restaurant serves thefinestfood.
Lack of proper food ledto much ll- ‘mess amang seamen.
It's s impartant to get plenty of exercise and to eat the right foods.
My father preferred to eat meat and hated rabiit food (= lettuce and other raw vegetables normally found n salads).
She is trying to cut down on Jatty foods.
Avoid rich foods like pastries.
Campaigners are challenging the sajety of genetically-modified food.
Omnivores are able (o eat animal or vegetable food.
The baby refuses to swallow any solid food.
They moved fromuvillage tovillage beging scraps of food.
You should eat more fresh foods.
He obuiously enjoys good food.
The dog has gone off its food.
The city was under siege and began to run short of food.
Ve hod been days without food.
The centre offers Jfood and accommdation for students.
Thanksto internationalaid, the town had been supplied with food for nine months.
Healwaysfed Whiskers the best cat food.
She Jed her baby on wholesome food.
Always take ‘great care when handling food.
Tastethe Jood and tell me what you think.
Please cut up the food for your babysister.
He had lost his oppetite and picked at his food.
She told the kids not to gulp down their food.
They sutdown at the restaurant tableand im- ‘mediately ordered their food.
The female eagle broods and the male hunts for food.
Most ‘mammals use their sense of smell 1o find food.
Keep food fresher for longer with our new sealable containers.
He ‘putout food for the birds.
Fruits are an important food source for bats.
The seaside fish market is a ready food supply for scavenging seabirds.
The UN has been issuing emergency food supplies to the refugees.
Many basic foodstuffs, such as bread and milk, are toxree.
Peasants were encouraged 1o grow basic food crops such as beans and corn.
The labels on food products give a lotof information about their nutritional content.
His doctor warned him to reduce his deily food intake.
Blendtheegg yolks, lemon juiceand herbs in a food processor.
Plankton is ot the bottom of the marine food chain.
Killing animals for food without ~ Afier three days without food, the men were close to starvation.
Gina had prepared food and drink for the work party.
Food and water were running out.
The Dordogne region is Jamous for its food and wine.
There was a ‘smell of food from the kitchen a supply of food The ocean provided the villagers with an endless supply of food.
You're an even bigger fool than I thought.
The poor old fool was imprisoned on my account.
They had left me looking like a fool.
Stop behaving likea fool! > He thought that being an actor only involved top dancing and playing the fool (= acting in @ childish/funny way).
She doesn’t suffer fools gladly.
He had taken me for a complete fool.
She had the car checked bya mechanic before buying it.
Like a fool, I told her everything.
That fool of @ doctor has prescribed me the wrong medicine! .
She was angry at hoving been made a fool of more fool (sb) I thought it was safe to leave my suitcase there.
More fool me (=Iwas stupid to think so).
I'm not easily fooled by anyone, leastof all you.
He fooled them into thinking he was a detective.
She had me completely fooled.
Thesystem i pretty well foolproof.
He shifted his weight onto his back foot.
He wos excused military service be- ‘cause of his flot feet.
If's dangerous to walk on the beach in/with bere feet.
He padded across the roomin his tockinged feet (- wearing socks butno shoes).
Ducks' webbed feet help them to swim.
He slipped across the corridor on silent feet.
He walked towards the examination room with leaden feet (= slowly).
I'e been on my feet alldayand Ineedtositdown forarest.
She put her foot down on the accelerator and the car lurched forward.
He raised his foot off the accelerator pedal.
Jeet as she reluctantly followed her parents.
Wipe vour feet when you come in from thestreet.
That man trodonmy footand hedidn't even apologize.
Hisfoot caught in the cable and he Jfell under the train.
My foot slipped as Iwas about to shoot and T missed the ball.
Thay carried him out of theroom with his Jeet kicking.
My feet sankdecp into the mud.
Foot passengers were allowed to leave the ferry before thevehicles.
The snow crunched beneath her feet, from~to~ They looked unsure and shifted uneasily from foot to foot.
The city is best explored on Joot.
He's broken several bones in his left foot.
She kicked the ball with her right foot.
Shewasdressed from head to oot in green velvet.
He likes to put his feet up and watch TV when he gets home.
Infon sth Cook claimed (o be the first European to set foot in Australia.
The solesof myfeet were covered in blisters.
Obscene football chants stop people taking their children to matches.
Goverage Join Radio 5 or all the top football action.
The football world was rocked by the scandal.
The World Cup is fascinating for its clash of footballcultures.
He found a secure foothold and pulled himself up.
The bench gave me the foothold I needed to climb into the tree.
The company is trying to gain a foothold in footstep the European market.
The firm has afirm foothold in this market.
She looked over her shoulder (o be sure of her footing.
The sole of this shoe willgivea firm footing even on slippery surfaces.
All claimants stand on an equal legal Jfooting.
The arrangement was put on a permanent footing earlier this year.
The army was placed on a war footing (= prepared for war).
The two teams stand on an equal footing.
Toun ‘planning procedures gained a footing in local government.
Being inconsiderate to the doctor will et you off on the wrong footing.
We need to get the business on a sound footing.
The footpath runs along the canal.
We walked along the footpath.
The monastery is an hour away by footpath.
The intruder had leftsome clear footprints in the flower beds.
Her wet boots made footprints on the dusty floor.
The detective found fresh footprints in the mud next to the victim.
They had fled through the snow, and police had followed their footprints.
The footsteps halted in the doorway.
The footsteps came closer as she listened.
The footsteps passed on, receding down the corridor.
Her Jootsteps died away as she walked down the path.
She showed some nimble Jootwork and looked a promising player.
Smoking is strictly forbidden.
Iy, totally, utterly You cannot do that.
Hewas forbidden from leaving the country.
The wind was increasing to gale force.
In the end, we had to resort to brute force to get the daor open.
The troops marched in and took the city by force.
The king made laws and imposed them by Jorce.
Our shop took the full force of the bomb blas.
The country's attempts to meet force with force (= esist an attack using force) led 1o the outbreak of war: the use of force The regulations allow the use of force if necessary.
Deep internal furces cause movements of the earth's crust.
The sun exerts a force on the carth.
The forces of expansion are balanced by forces of contraction.
Itwas as if an invisibleforce ield kept usapart.
The netw law comes into Jorce asfrom midnight tomorrouw.
In~ Some laws relating 1o obsolete customs are stillinforce.
She was seen as a potentially sub.
Though officially retired, she remains the creative force behind the design business.
This is a politician wha does ot like to balance marketforces.
Local parents were the driving force behind the project.
Competition is a force for change in industry.
Europe a force to be reckoned with With its new players, the team is now very much a jorce to bereckoned with.
These elite forces are the best equipped and trained in the world.
See also task force.
The two companies have joined forces to form a new consortium.
Rebel forces now control ‘mostaf the capital.
He returned, full of foreboding, to the scene of the accident.
With (8)~ The sky was dull, with a foreboding of rain.
She hada foreboding of danger.
The government has issued a pessimistic economic forecast.
The interest rateis in line with the forecast.
Some farecasts suggest that the increase in heart disease will continue for some time.
Education remains at_the forefront of tha stat's planning.
She came to the forefront as governor after the political change.
The new Jactory could put the town back at the forefront of steelmaking.
This question remained at the forefront of her mind.
Inthe~This issueis very much in the foreground.
He groaned and slapped his forehead, as { suddenly remembering something obuious.
He rubbed a hand across his fore- ‘head as though he were tired.
He wiped the sweat from his forehiead.
He went to bed complaining ofa pain in theforehead.
She pushed her wet ‘hair off her forehead.
His hair fell over his Jforehead.
The name sounded foreign.
He was asmall man, distinctly foreign in appearance.
He could not reasonably ‘have foreseen the consequences.
We could foresee no difficulties with these proposals.
It is impassible to foresee the future.
He had had the foresight to bring in the washing before the rain started.
The plans showed great foresight.
Forest is being cleared to make way for new farming land.
Thick forest stretched as far asthe eyecould see.
They got lost in the forest.
We slashed our way through the dense orest.
We had had the fore thought to book places in advance.
He had made the remark completeIy without forethought.
Ill never forget the expression on his face.
Her joy was so infectious that he momentarily forgot his own fears for the future.
The experience of nearly getting killed Is not easily forgotten.
He conveniently forgot to tell me he was married.
Youseem (oforget that it was your idea in the first place.
It is easy {0 forget that not all countries have these advantages.
Oh yes! Ialmostforgot about the party.
In the excitement I forgot all about my little brother: forgive and forget It was all a long time ago and now Ellen found she could forgive and forget.
She keeps forgetting where she's ut her glasses.
His pioneering work in thefield was largely forgotten until the late 1940s.
Rodney has never quite forgiven either of them.
An insult like that isn’t easy to forgive.
He fel to his knees and begged God (o forgive him.
Shenever forgave him for losing her ring.
He was not the sort of man toforgiveand forget.
He begged her forgiveness for his mistake.
She would willingly forgo a birthday treatif only her warring parents would declarea truce.
Time to prepare was a luxury ‘he would have to forgo.
She impaled a piece of meat on her fork.
Mash themixture with a fork.
Bear left at the fork in the road.
The house Stood foriornand empty.
Shedidr't belong, and felt uterlyjoriorn.
Strikes are the most commaon form of industrial protest.
Inits purest form, the substance’s highly explosive.
The document was edited before being circulated in its final form.
Story-telling has acquired the statusof anart Jorm.
The data is stored in digital form.
Theresults of the survey areshoun below in tabular form.
Thegas is stored in liquid form.
These costs were passed on to the tenants in the form of higher rents.
Swimming is one of the best forms of exercise.
The company will not tolerate discrimination in any shape or form.
We spend most of our time communicating In some formor other.
Two weeks later the moth will emerge in its adult form.
Injout Please complete theapplication form and return it tous.
The team is hoping that it can ‘maintain its current form.
In~ She was in fine form for the tournament.
Barcelona aretheteam in form.
Her recent llness possibly explains why shewasoff form in thisrace.
He'll be a difficult opponent 1o beat; he's really on form today.
On his present form it seems (ikelythat he witlwin the match.
The team was out of form and did not ‘play as well as expected.
Invite sb to The leader of the party with the ‘mostseatsis invited toform a government.
Into Sheformed theclay intoa ball.
The plan came in a flash of inspiration, fully formed.
Learning was by rote and strictly formal.
The greeting was polite, al- ‘most formal.
Her words sounded oddiy formal.
His manner was stiffly formal.
Getting approval for the plan is a purely formal matter: nobody witt seriously oppose it.
The monarch retains largely formal duties.
Your acceptance into the club will be amere formality.
Itonly took a few minutes to complete the legal formalities.
Let'sdispense with the formalities and get doun towork.
She was clearly the best candidate for the job, so her interview was just a formality.
It is important to be aware of the levelof formality required at any social function.
For this year, we have decided to change the format.
The book is now available in a slightly smaller format.
This dispute led to theformation of a new breakaway group.
The troops advanced in batile formation.
The men were grouped in a close formation.
The task looks formidable.
Men found her formidable.
The government was forced to find @ fucesaving formula to cover its ‘misjudgement.
Noone has yet come up with a successful peaceformula.
No one has a magic formula for keeping youngsters away from crime.
We think we might ‘have hiton a winning formula.
His ideas ore always very carefully formulated.
He claims that Marx never consciously formulated his own theoretical position.
Iron Age, Roman, Saxon, etc.
Government forces managed to hold thefort.
The jort was under attack for three days.
The Jort finally fell after a week of intense fighting.
Allwas calm at the fort that night.
Help was duly forthcoming.
She wasn't very forthcoming about where she'd been.
She's always been very forthright about ‘her preferences.
The town was heavily fortified against attack.
We've spent the last fortnight in Spain.
We hope to leave in the next fortnight.
Greek warriors took the fortress with little effort.
The ortressfell after anine-day siege.
They took refuge in the fortress.
Indeed He was indeed fortunate in hisfriends.
It wasfortunatefor us that the rain stopped.
We are fortunate in having quitea lotof land.
By a stroke of good fortune, Steven wasstillin his office.
All we can do is hope for a change in fortune.
The party still hopes to revive its flagging electoral fortunes.
Jortunes can change overnigh.
The company suffered agreat reversalof fortunes when public taste changed.
They went to have their fortunes read.
Her aunt died and left her afortune.
They went (o seck their fortune abroad.
Some of those old toys are worth a fortunenow.
He buil his fortune from breeding horses.
She made a fortune in the property boom.
They sold thelr house at the right time and made a fortune on it.
He has amassed a considerable fortune out of trading shares.
They went to America in search of fame and fortune.
He was sole heir to the family fortune.
The conference provides a useful forum for the exchange of views and ideas.
The film show was followed by an open forum onediting technigues.
An international forum on economic development took place in Brussels.
The school has carefully Jfostered its progressive image.
Hewas sentoff for a blatant foul on Giggs.
The police haveruled out foul play in the caseaof his death.
The thunder seemed to shake the very foundations of the building.
They had dug too deep and undermined the foundations of the house.
In 1853 Queen Victoria laid the foundation stone of the new palace.
This agreement laid a sound foundation for future cooperation betuween the tuwo countries.
We now ‘have a firm foundation to build on.
The peace treaty rests on shaky foundations.
Al students 'have todo the foundation subjects of maths and English.
The scandal rocked the legalestablishment to its foundations.
Rumours of his resignation are entirely withoutfoundation.
Children were queuing at thedrinking fountain.
We arranged to meet up in the foer of the Hyatt hotel.
The average income is high, though many people earn just a fraction of that average.
Express 25% as @ Jraction.
He suffered a stress fracture of the right foot.
This perfume has a light, fresh fragronce.
The fragronce of lavender filled the room.
Geranium oil hasa sweet fragrance reminiscent of roses.
The air wasfragrant with lavender: frail edj.
Mary old people become mentally froil.
She looked old and froil.
Increasing Despite increasing physical frailty, he continued to write stories.
She has quitea small frame.
The needs of individual schools need to be considered in a wider framework.
Carbon dating provides the archaeologist with a basic chronological framewark.
They established a basic framework of ground rules for discussions.
The committee will work within the frametwork of certain brood abjectives.
It wos decided that all ‘men in the armed forces should qualify for the franchise.
He had (o exercise the franchiseon behalf of other council members.
The company has just won a television JSranchise.
The franchise was quarded to a French company.
Jranchises will be auctioned to the highest bidder.
The diving school has acquired a franchise Jor scuba equipment.
Catering in the schools isrun on afranchise basis.
Let me be perfectly frank with you.
She surveyed Sophiefrom top to toe in a disarmingly frank way.
She was brutally frank in her assessment of our chances.
Macmillan was quite frank about his concerns.
To befrank with you, Idon’t really think you've gotachance.
He was quite frantic by the time we got home.
We were starting to get frantic with worry.
The manager described the 5-0 defeat as a freak result.
This wos no more than.
By some freak of fate, ‘shewan an enormous sum of money.
Other students re- ‘garded him as a freak.
She had wonderful clear skin with an attractive sprinkling of freckles.
She struggled to free ‘herself from hisgrip.
They succeeded i freeing thelr friends from prison.
He had finally been freed of his responsibilitics.
The government wants to leave companies free to make their own decisions.
The students are entirely free to choose their own courses.
The organization wants to remain free from government control.
Theskip broke free from its moorings.
They tied him up but he manoged to get free.
She managed topull freeof her attacker.
She watked free from jail.
He was trapped by his leg.
They let their prisoner free.
The birds were set Sree.
This full-colour poster comesfree with themagazine.
We will send you our booklet free of charge.
We've managed to keep the garden free of weeds this year.
At last he's totally Jreefrom pain.
Trie hosDitalneeds to keep some beds free for emergencies.
The new syllabus allows students greater Jreedom of choice.
Living without war isa fundamental freedom.
Individual freedom should be balanced against the rights of the community.
When she lost her job, she at first relished her new-found freedom.
Without academic freedom, we cannot do any research.
Teachers can exercise a measure of freedom in their choice of materials.
Publishers here enjoy comparative freedom to publish what they want.
The women have won many new freedoms for themselves.
As Mike saw it, marriage would mean giving up hisfreedom.
Our freedom was threatened by press censorship.
Branch managers have considerable freedom in running their ofJices.
The Official Secrets Act was amended to allow greater freedom of information.
He's been freelance for several years.
She works freelance from home.
She decided to glvein her notice and gofreelance.
She continued to work for the company on a freelance basis.
The weather report advised us to prepare for a big freeze.
The government ‘has imposed a price freeze on petrol.
Nift It's too expensive 1o lift the freeze on pay.
The pond had frozen solid.
Tre lake kas frozen over.
The pipes have frozen up.
Hundreds of homeless peaple could freeze todeath this winter.
Many vegetables freeze very well.
His smile frozefor a moment.
Suddenly, Ronny seemed to freeze.
She froze with horror when she saw the ‘body.
Maggie’s face had frozen intoa cold mask.
He was so surprised he froze to the spot.
Wages were effectively frozen for six months.
They bought ail their frozen food from the same freezer centre.
Your freezer contents can belnsured against loss.
That water looks freezing.
It was a freezing cold day.
In the Antarctic, the temperature rarely rises above freezing point, at~ the changes that take place at freezing point below ~ The temperature dropped below Jréezing point this afternaon.
The Sreightwas transferred to train at Rotterdam.
The train’s freight wagons can carry a fully-laden lorry.
The smellof blood sent the sharks intoa feeding frenzy.
Heuwas soangry that he warked himself into a frenzy.
Trie relative frequency of this llness in the area is of concern to all doctors.
Bullets bounced off the rock with alarming frequency.
Crime increases in frequency in less settled neighbourhoods.
Increase, reduce The drug can reduce the frequency and severity of attacks.
Accidents of this sort are happening with increasing frequency.
The attacks have becotne increasingly frequent.
She was a fairly frequent visitor ta the hause.
Coughs and colds are frequent among young children.
She phaned homeat frequent intervals.
Mushrooms don't stay fresh for long.
It's best to eat them fresh.
Putitin the fridge tokeep it fresh.
There's some cold ‘beef and a nicefresh loaf.
I'm exhausted from the constant friction between my boss andmycolleagues.
His decision led to considerable frit family.
Her requests for time off created friction with her boss.
Rubbing the stanes together produces friction.
The kids tend to raid the fridge when they get home from school.
The fridge was stocked with food and drink.
Her best friend at school was called Anna.
I'm inviting only my closest friends ta the party.
He was last seen leaving a restaurant with a female friend.
People he had trusted turned out to be only Jfair-weather friends (= stopped being his friends when he was in trouble).
We met each other through a mutual friend.
They became friends after meeting on holiday.
We stayed friends even after wegrew upand left home.
Hefinds it dif Sicult 1o make friends.
She's made friends with the little girl who lives next door.
He war't win any friends if e carries on talking like that.
She doesn’t have many good friends.
He introduced me to his circle of friends.
With the departure of his re- ‘maining colleague he was ket friendless.
Frank was a genuinely friendly sort.
He seemed detached, almost bored, but perfectly friendy.
For ance he seemed almost friendly.
He wasaluways riendly towards me.
She'svery frienly with Maureen.
We have managed toremain onfriendly terms.
Employers are being encouraged to adopt family friendly measures like flexible hours.
They formed a close friendship at university.
Their affair had started out as an innocent friendship.
Iifelong, long, long-standing They made vows of eternal friendship to each other.
It was a period of her life when she made some lifelong riendships.
He finds it difficult to make lasting Jriendships.
Jo struck up a friendship with a girlon her course.
We cemented our friendship with a meal and a few drinks.
He's keen on cultivating his Jriendship with the Edwards family.
It will be a pleasure 10 renew our friendship.
Friendships need time todevelop.
He was jealous of the friendship betuween his wife and deughters.
Her mother did not approveof her friendship with Ahmed.
Hties of friendship The ties of friendShip between us wilt never be broken.
The president extended the hand of friendship towards the country's former enemy.
In a gesture of friendship, the president invited his Jformer enemies to a reception.
She ‘offended them by turning down their offer of friendship.
We hope the spirit of friendship and cooperation.
They were paraIysed with fright.
The birds took frightat thesight of the cat and flew off.
Emmagotsucha frightthat he dropped the tray.
The prospect of war really frightens me.
Simon was badly frightened at the result of his action, by Most of us are frightened by our emotions.
I'm rather frightened of dogs.
She was frightened to death when shesaw her smatldaughter on the edge of the cliff.
The situation was getting quite frightening.
He found the responsibility rather frightening.
This is extremely frightening for elderly people.
It was all very frightening to small boy.
My fringe needs trimming.
She kept brushing her fringe off her forehead.
She stared at us from ‘bencath her fringe.
She has her hair pulled forward ina fringe.
He moved from fringe theatre to mainstream when hewaschasen to play a leading role on Broadizay.
Andes around the~ new housing around the urban Jringe at tha~ They pitched their tents at the fringe of the ‘open fields.
Beyond this marginal fringe no agriculture is possible.
These people live on the fringes of society.
The frog ploppedinto the pond.
Thousands were killed on the eastern front.
She put on a brave fron, but I knew howmiserable shewas.
Her aggressive behaviour is just a front for ‘her shyness.
Franco-Spanish, Hispano-French, Spanis! French, French, etc.
The army crossed the frontier in the middle of the night.
The rebels control the frontier and the surrounding area.
Many people travelling across the frontier were illegol immigrants.
Space is the final frontier for us to explore.
The scientists’ work will push back the frontiers of physics.
The young plants all died in the late frost.
There was just a touch of frost in the air.
There were ten degrees of frost last night.
The winter frosts have set in up north.
The sharp frost nipped at our noses.
The windouws were covered in frost.
The cor was wet with melting Srost.
The doy downed cold ond rosty.
He cool green eyes became positively frosty.
The atmos phere in the room was decidedlyfrosty.
The boy gave a small frown.
Into, wrinkle in Her face creased into a frown.
Fer frown grew deeper at the memory.
Her frown creased her forehead.
In your eyes He looked at her witha ‘puzzled froun in hiseyes.
She studied the letter, frouning thoughtfully.
She turned ond frowned ot him.
He looked at the coded message, frowning in concentration.
He frowned with annoyonce.
Thecrabapple bearsa small, bitter rui.
He was now reaping the fruitsof oll his hard work.
Special page on page332.
This research has been enormously fruitful in helping our understonding of the disease.
This Jailure leaves the child depressed and frustroted.
Shesounded rather frustrated tome.
Both sides in the dispute oppeared very frustrated ot the lack of progress.
We were frustrated by the long delays.
Sometimes he ges really frustrated with hisviolin playing.
Ifound the delays intensely frustratine.
Pincopples grow in tropicol climates.
We have been growing redeurrants for many years Blackberries ripen in the auturn.
We haven't hod any pears yet this year This tree produces very sweet plums.
He's a peach grower.
It was a demeaning and ultimately frustrating experience.
He was still seething with angry frustration.
He fook his pent-up/rustration outon ‘his family.
He clenched his fists in frustration.
Several people resigned through frustration.
Many have expressed frustration at the delays.
There weretears of frustration in her eyes.
Fry the vegetables gently inoil.
The power plant burns used vehicletyresasfuel.
The engine gives good fuel economs.
He amply fulfilled the weight of expectation that they had placed on him.
Turkey is @ market that has never quite fulfilled its potential.
Alan was finally able to fulfil his promise to Sarah.
Students must fulfil the following entrycriteria.
She needed greater fulfilment in her job.
Most ‘computer games provide some kind of wish fulfilment.
Hederives a lotof fulfilmentfrom hischarity work.
Ican'tfind fulfilment in doing housework.
They gain a sense of fulfilment from their wor.
The reservoirs areallvirtuolly full.
Her wine glass wasstill quite full.
She was still quietly fuming about Peter’s remarks.
We wereall fuming at the delay.
Motorists were ket fuming as police closed the motorway for six hours.
He sat fuming over what he had just learnt.
Clouds of toxic fumes escaped from the chemicat plant.
The fire gave off chaking fumes.
Sometimes exhais fumes escape into the vehicle.
The boys' ame started as harmless fun butended in trageds.
We won't leta bit of rain spoil our fun.
Sheorganized an annualfun oy for local children.
If's no fun getting upat 4a.
They ok up motor racing justfor the fun of t, rather than to win anything.
You have to have a sense of fun to be a good teacher.
The committee has a dual function, both advisory and regulatory.
Fortunately, his ‘head injuries left his bodily functions unimpaired.
Ll members carry out their own particular functions.
Dy, charity, official, social The princess attended a charity function in aid of cancer research.
The wedding reception will beheld in the Swan Hotel's function room.
All the instruments were functioning normally.
Problems arise when the body's immune system is not functioning adequately.
This model does not describe accurately the way a market economy actually functions.
The bombs continued tofall, but somehow the citystill functioned.
When nutrients are in short supply the body cannot function properly.
Tre group has now become afully functioning political organization.
The news paper lounched an appeal fund for victimsof thedisaser.
Create, establish, launch, set up, start They setup an investment fund to provide maney for their retirement.
Tey don't want todraz on the fund unless they have to.
In althe~ There is currently over £200000 in the fund.
The money received is paid directly intoa pension fund.
Trere are only limited funds available.
We have insufficient funds to pay Jor the building wark.
We are Short of junds at the moment, so we are not going on holiday.
The school is appealing for funds 10 invest innew equipment.
Funds will be madeavailable toensure the provision of haspital services.
The government is to channel more funds into local development schemes.
The current account offers savers instant access to funds.
Theproject was hompered by lack of funds.
The venture is funded entirely by its board of directars.
The school opted out of local authority controland s funded directly by the government.
This money will helpto fund administration costs.
We consider these freedoms fundamental todemocracs.
This principle is clear and absolutely fundomental.
Improved funding is fundamental to the success of the project.
The new law strikes at the very fundamentals of a free press.
We quickly mastered the basic fundamentals of naviga tion.
Half the university research posts depend on outside funding.
The refusal to grant extra funding to schools in the poorestareas caused a political sorm.
The president called for greater funding for housing for the poor: ~trom The school has atwracted funding from & number of sources.
His savings were just enough to pay for a respectable funeral.
The dead man's son arranged the funerol.
She had a simple funeral, as she had requested.
Everyone went back to the house after the service for the funeral gathering.
He gave theaddress at her funeral.
The mavie gets funnier towards the end.
His performance was hilariously funny.
Dbe, feel, ook, seem, smell, sound, strlke sb s, taste Didn't it strike you as funny that Adam wasn't there? This wine tastes funny.
Helen gave mea rather funny look.
The cat's fur was matted with blood.
Their incompetence made mefurious.
He was simply furious about what had ‘happened to his mother.
The furnaces glowed Siercely.
The flat is fully furnished.
The villa was expensively furnished throughout.
Each of the ten bedrooms isindividually furnished.
The wood is used for making fine furniture.
The room would look bigger if we rearranged the Jurniture.
Cause, create, provoke His choice of words created quite a furore.
His resignation passed almost unnoticed amid the furore of the elections.
Thesale of thetuwo best players caused afurore among the fans.
Thelook in his eyes became furtive.
The secretary looked almost furtive when [walked in.
He growled with barely controlled fury.
He was beside himself with fury.
He vented his fury on a tele- ‘phone box.
That kind of treatment would drive ansone to furs.
The decision to close thefactory has provoked fury.
His face and body sagged as the furydrained from him.
She turned on him in a fury.
Her fury against him rose.
He kicked the tree in fury at his own stupidits.
He Set the fuse (o thirty minutes.
Make sure that the correct fus is it ted.
When the machine was suitched on it blewa fuse.
Fuses blow if they areoverloaded.
Once the fuss has ‘blown over; we'll beable to get on with work as usual.
They left quietly, without fuss.
She made a big fuss about not having a window seat on the plane.
Thechildren wereallmaking agreatfuss of thenew baby.
The job was done with the minimum of fuss.
The president described theseactivities as utile.
Things will continue as they are for the foreseeable future.
Don't think too ‘much about past troubles—look to the future.
What are your plans for the future? in (the)~ In future, employees will park their vehicles away from theworks entrance.
The possibility of travel oother solar systems still lies in the distant future.
The stars of the future are competing in the world junior athleticschampionships this month.
In her speech, the director outlined her vision for the future.
He forecasts a dire future for the indusiry.
The firm faces a very uncertaln future.
After being dropped from theteom the young defender is considering his future.
She has a very promising future as a musiclan.
Hecould see nofuture in hisjob.
The screen suddenly wentfuzzy.
The truck’s headlights were altfuzzy andghostilke.
She has invented a nifty little godget for undoing stubborn nuts and bolts.
They tied him up and put a gag on him.
There wasthis running gog abouta penguin (= they kept telling penguin jokes).
The men left the security ‘guards bound ond gagged.
This change in the tax system will mean big gains for some companies.
Zabour ‘made an overall gain of 39 seats.
She tucked ‘herill-gotten gains into her purseand Ief.
There will benofi- ‘nanclal gain for mothers from this new system.
She was most upset by her recent weight gain.
There is still scope Jor efficiency gains (= gains to be made by being more efficient).
Better workplace design con bring real gains in productivity.
If's amazing what some people will do for gain.
In Lastyear there was onlya modest gain in earnings.
Consumers have certainIy gained from the increased competition i the telecommu nications industry.
His ideas gradually gained acceptance.
Husbands and wives of British nationals donotautomatically gain citizenship.
The company stands to gain (= islikelytogain)quite a ot from this government scheme.
Protesters tried 10 gainaccess to the presidential palace.
Weall gained a lot from the experience.
Why not give it a go? You've nothing to lose and everything to gain.
Hewalked witha rolling gait.
Force 9, Force 10, etc.
It was blowing a gale outside.
Wegot caught in a howling gale.
In~ The trec had come down in a fierce gale the night before.
He offered ten major paintings tostarta national gallery of modern Britishart.
Some of his work has been exhibited by local art galleries.
The painting is now on display at the Nationol Galleryin London.
There were very few peoplein thegallery.
The packed public gallery at Teesside Crown Court erupted in aroar of approval.
In althe~ [ found myself in a wide gallery looking down on the floor below.
The horses broke into a mad gallop when they heard the gunshot.
They reached the farm at a gallop.
The naise startled the horse into a gallop.
The programme starts with a gallop through the historyaf the aitwa.
Trying to find the right pension can bea bitof a gamble.
Most compulsive gamblers are not successjul.
He went to a psychiatrist about his compulsive gambling.
Wlegal The police are trying to stopall illegalgambling.
Sheranupgambling debts worthamillion pounds.
If Twerea gambling man, T put my money on him resigning soon.
To pass the time, we played @ gameaf cards.
The team are in training for their big game.
Unied are playing a home game this week.
We won the first game and drew the second.
He's hoping to be fit before next week’s gamewith Liverpool.
That girl plays a great game of bridge.
Trescothick had a good gameandwas man of thematch.
Hendry raised his game to collect the £40 000 first prize.
In, participate In, take part in She's haping toparticipate in the next Olympic Games.
Getting dirty was all partof the game to the kids.
I'm new to this gamemyself.
Irealized that he had been playing astupid gamewith me.
I'll soon putan end to her sily little games.
Theexhibition runs the whole gamut of artisticstyles.
The robbery was carried out by an armed gang.
Fights had ensued between rival gangs of football fans.
Wewerein the same gong.
You probably go witha gang of friends to the ‘same pubmost Saturdays.
Her friends made me feel welcome and treated meas one of the gang.
The wound was not properlydisinfected and gangrenesetin.
Seal the gaps aroundthe windows with an exterior-quality sealant.
He flashed his headlights and jumped lanes whenever a gap openedup.
Position thetiles, leaving a narrow gap between the edges.
I'm planning to travel in my gap year (= the year between school and university).
She returned (o teaching after a tuwelveyear gap.
Despite the age gap, romance blossomed.
Newspapers were talking of a credibility gap between what he soid and what he did.
He realized how narrow was the gap separating him from his paganancestors.
The gop between rich and poor widened.
His death left huge gap in mylife.
Her appointment will fill the gap created when the marketing manager left.
We think we've identified agap in the market (=3 business opportunity to make or sellsththst isnot yet available).
She watched him, her mouth gaping open.
Don't forget to put thecar tn the garage.
Thecar'sstill ot the garage.
Most of the hotel's salads are grown in its own kitchen garden.
We got someone to design the garden for us.
The garden is loid out in eighteenth century style.
We planted the garden with herbs and wild flowers.
Weckends were spent doing the garden.
We got the gravel at our local garden centre.
Mary's out in the garden.
She employs a jobbing gardener to keep the gerden tidy.
The organic gardener avoids the use of pesticides.
I'smy husband who does the gardening.
She wore a shape tess knitted garment.
Police used water cannonand tear gas against demonstratars.
Local gas works were closed as natural gas became available.
All gas leaks should be re- ‘ported assoon as possibie.
Set theoven at gas mark 4.
She got a nasty gash on the heod.
The bulldozers carved a great gash through the forest.
The stunt brought shocked gasps from the audience.
Listen carefully,’ he said, between gasps of breath.
She spun round witha littlegaspof delight.
The cold made her gasp.
She gasped at his boldness.
Denis almost ‘gasped aloud inastonishment.
The great gates of the abbey were shut fust.
Dor’tforget to shut the gate when you leave.
The defenders had closed and barred all the clty gates.
Go through the gate and continue down the track.
The heavy gate swung open.
Thegate shut behind him.
He led us through a gate into a littlegarden.
The boys gathered around the car for They areall gathering for a major conference.
The movement for reform rapidly gathered momentum.
As the weeks ‘passed, Charlotte began to gather strength.
Women are not allowed to attend public gatherings.
We're having a small family gathering to mark our weddinganniversary.
Theprime minister addressed a gathering of local government officials.
All the children and grandchildren are gaing to my parents’ at Christmas for theannual gathering of theclan.
The pilot checked the fuel gauge frequently.
The petrol gaugewasreading ‘full’.
The depth gauge tells you howdeep you have dived.
Eventually all the British railway companies adopted the standard gauge of 4 feet 8% inches.
She felt embarrassed under his steady gaze.
His deep blue gaze held hers.
Pop stars are constantly exposed to the publicgaze.
They fixed their gaze on the dark line of the coast ahead.
She Jfixed him with a level gaze.
He turned his gaze on me.
She refused ta meet my gaze.
She deliberately averted her gaze when hecame in.
She avolded his gaze.
His gaze flickered an instant.
His gaze flickered over the room.
Her gaze followed Simon’s through the archway.
Her gaze Jixed on his and held it unbiinkingly.
His gaze locked with hers.
Her gaze fell on Kate's tousled hair.
He blushed under her angry gaze.
He gazed unblinkingly into the distance.
He gazed absently at the passing crowd.
She gazed admiringly up at him.
They gazed in wonder at the mighty peaks.
Into She gazed steadily into his face.
Into, shift (into), switch I's difficult to Steer and change gear at the same time.
The party organization is moving into top gear as the election approaches.
He was crashing the gears ‘because hewasso nervous.
She made a smooth gear change.
Some drivers leave the car in gear when parking on hills.
She had her running gear on.
Our training programmes are geared specifically to the needs of older workers.
The second side of their new album contains some real gems.
She worked in the antiques trade, searching out hidden gems in the most unltkely places.
She examines the interplay between changing gender divisions and urban change.
The government is working on tackling gender inequalities in employment.
Man- ‘agers may value different qualities in men than in women, reinforcing gender stercotypes.
Thegene!s passedon to their children.
Scientists have estimated that @ gene poolof at least 300animals is necessary 1o maintain a healthy tiger population.
Gene mutations are alterations in the DNA code.
The author makes several sweeping ‘generalizations about the causes of thecrisis.
We cannot generalize from these few examples.
The wind turbines are used 1o generate electricity.
The lotteryis expected 1o generate substantial funds for charities.
Living cells generate energy from food.
The forest will be preserved for future generations.
These children seerm to ‘have a stronger sense of purpose than the previous generation.
The second generation of immigrants aften adopted British forenames.
Succeeding generations have added to the stock of stories and legends.
The First World War slaughtered a whole generation.
The consequences of the radioactive leakage may not become apparent for @ generation or more.
This kind of apple has been grouwn for generations.
The recipe for making the liqueur has been handed down from generation to generation.
The wind generator delivers 120watts in a strong breeze.
He thanked them for the extraordinary generosity they had shown.
Their guests took advantage of their generosity, overstaying their welcome by severaldays.
She showed an unusual generosity of spirit to those who ‘had opposed her: thanks to the generosity of sb The hospital has now bought a new body scanner; thanks to the generosity of local fund-raisers.
You have been most generous.
The ‘review panel criticized the payments as overly generous.
Thank you for your donation.
It was very generous of you.
They have been extremely generous to the iosque.
She's quite generous with her praise.
In a flash of pure genius, She realized the ansiver 10 the problemn.
It was strokeof genius on my part to avoid such awkward questions.
She has a genius for sorting thingsout.
His genius lies in his ability to convey pure terror in his work.
Refugees gave accounts of the mass genocide.
Noteat CRIME (for verbs) gentle adj.
His mouth looked deceptively gentle.
The new treatments are gentle on your hair: ‘with She was very gentle with the children.
He's a real gendleman, always kind and considerate.
He may be a lord, but he's nogentleman.
Norfolk, and lived the life of a country gentleman.
The documentis notconsidered genuine.
Her happiness was perfectly genuine.
I'm convinced she is absolutely genuine.
His offer sounded genuine enough.
Pre-Christian sacred geometry was incorporated into churcharchitecture.
The epidemic was caused by @ particularly virulentflu germ.
Children carry all kinds of germs ‘home from school.
Cracks and scratches in work surfoces can harbour germs.
They used bleach to kill any germs in the sinkand drain.
He gesticulated wildly as he tried to make ‘herunderstand.
The other woman was gesticulating at the am: bulance.
The officer gesticulated fowards the refugees.
She made an expansive gesture with her arms.
He responded with a vague gesture in the direction of the pub.
The children made rude gestures at them.
Theycommunicate entirely by gesture.
In a~ "Hewaved his arms ina melodramatic gesture.
He had the respect of his people without the need for grand gestures.
Several hostages were released as a goodwill gesture.
In a dramatic gesture, the prime minister refused 0 attend the meeting.
The invasion attempt was intended as a political gesture against his op- ‘ponents.
His gift was a gesture of friendship.
The president’s speech was seen as a conclliatory gesture towards former enemies.
She gestured at him to step back.
He gestured around the room, lost for words.
He gestured abruptly for Virginia to get in the car.
Mrs Davis gestured to the waiter: towards He gestured vaguely towards the house.
The ghost of a hanged poacher is said to ‘haunt the manor house.
Some people are intimidated by his size, butin fact he's a gentle giant.
Hewasa giant of a man.
Theoil giant Esso is planning to set up a new refinery in the port.
Camusis considered to be one of the tuentieth century's literary giants.
The Amazon is a giant ‘amongst rivers.
My mum came over all giddy and had 1 sit down.
Steep stairs may leave you giddy and faint.
He felt tired and giddy from the sleeping pill.
Than: you all for your kind gifts.
She received lavish gifis of jeweliery and clothes.
When you place your first order with us, we will send you the free gift of your choice.
Hearrived home bearing gifts for everyone.
They gaveeachother gifts at Christmas.
Please accept this small gift.
The children all receivedgifts.
New customers will receive a free gift pack containing a selection of our products.
There were gifts for all the children.
This vase was a gift from my mother.
The golf clubs were her gift to her husband.
She hasa natural giftfor music.
He's very gifted atmaths.
They're doing a g1g in Leeds tonight.
They're performing ata local pub gig.
Weall collapsed into giggles.
Susan tends to get the gigglesat the most inappropriate moments.
Age before beauty! she said with a giggle.
We had quitea giggle about the new office romance.
The children giggled hysterically.
They giggled about their teacher’s accident.
We giggled at the picture.
The children giggled with delight.
The promise of lower taxation may have been just an election gimmick to gain votes.
He dismissed the event as just a publicity gimmick.
What are you drinking? ‘Tll have aginand tonic, please.
When she was a litle girl, she dreamed of becoming a ballerina.
It is difficult to convey the gist of Reich's ideas simply.
I'm just glad it's all over.
Danny looked almast glad to be going.
She was secretIy sladaf hiscompany.
What have got ta be glad about? for We're glad for you both.
Caroeing is ot seen asglamorous in the way that skiing is.
Working in publishing turned out to be less than glamorous.
Several film stars were invited to add a tauch of glamour to the accasion.
He hac a glamour about him that she found very attractive.
Jumbo jets somehow lack the glamour of the transatlantic liner.
Her long dark hair lent her a certain glamour.
She cast a sidelong glance at Fern.
After a cursory glance at the report he frowned.
The man walked slowly along, casting furtive glances behind him.
Meena threw him an angry glance.
The couple exchanged meaningful ‘glances but said nothing.
He gave her a mocking glance.
Hestolea sidelong glance t the young woman sitting next to him on the train.
She took one last glance in the mirror and then left.
They exchanged knowing glances.
Her glance Jlickered briefty across to the group standing at the other Side of the street.
Their glances met, then they both looked away.
His glance Jfellon apileof papers at one side of the desk.
The software allows you to see at glance what fonts you have on the computer: with a~ With a quick ‘glanceat the time, she stood up and prepared to leave.
He left without a backward glance.
He ignored my glance of disapproval.
Norton glanced sharply at him.
He glanced covertly at his watch.
She barely glanced at him.
She glanced up at him.
He turned to glance in our direction.
At that moment she happened to glanceup.
She glanced around the room.
She glanced across to where the others were standing chatting.
She glanced briefly at his lapel ‘badge.
He glanced towards the kitchen.
She's gone to bed with swollen glands and a temperature.
Female ants release pheromanesfrom their scent glands.
We wore sunglasses to reduce the glare from the road.
Foramament she was blinded by the harsh glare of thesun.
We screwed up our eyes against the blinding glare from the searchlights.
Under the glare of the street lamps, visi%ility was good.
The di vorce was conducted in the full glare of media publicity.
Shefixed her questioner with an icy glare.
Hesent her a glare that was full of suspicion.
She shota warning glare at her companion.
He turned his baleful glare on the cowering suspect.
He stood at the bottom of the stairs, glaringupat us.
Jured by flying glass.
The floor was littered with fragments of broken glass.
Venetian craftsmen blowing glass The factory makes safety glass.
The books were all behind glass (= in glass cases).
She cut her foot on some glass.
Hecould see the light through the frosted glass.
Hepoured her frsh glass f sherry.
Hehadasmall glass of lager with his meal.
She sat sipping a glass of champagne.
The wair er filled their glasses.
The butler was polishing the brandy glasses.
She raised the glass to her lips.
They clinked glasses, still laughing.
She had had three glasses of whisky alreads.
He sat back, glass in hand.
She pushed her glasses up and rubbed the bridge of her rose.
His glasses steamed up as so0n as he came indoors.
Horn-rimmed glasses perched on the bridge of her nose.
She blinked behind her glasses.
Their anxlous faces were hidden behind dark glasses.
He had a speculative gleam in hiseyes.
The Anife's blade gleamed dully in the dark.
The long oak table gleamed with polish.
The pebble beach ‘gleamed white in the moonlight.
In the east we could see the first faint glimmer of dawn.
The faint glimmer of an idea had crept into his mind.
They caught occasional glimpses of great birds circling.
This was my first tantalizing glimpse of the islands.
Thousands of people had gathered, hoping to catch a glimpse of the Queen.
Weonly had a fleeting glimpseof the sun allday.
He ook a quick glimpse at the map.
This scene may givearare glimpse of Charles's personal style as king.
That smile afforded her a brief glimpse of the other side of Adam Burns.
Theexhibition offers a fascinating glimpse at life beneath thewaves.
Amang the trees I caught a slintof blue.
He had a dangerous glint in his eyes.
There was a glint of amusement in her eyes.
Her eyes glinted with amusement.
Crystal chandeliers glittered brightly above then.
His metal buttons glittered in the sunlight.
Treesand grass glittered with dew.
His deep-seteyes glittered coldly.
Her eyes glittered with delight.
Sirst boats to circumnavigate the globe © She travelled the ‘globe in search of good writers of children’s stories.
The railuway network soon spread across the globe.
Chess fans around the ‘globe waiched the match with breathless interest.
Athletes from every corner of the globe competed in the Games.
She was in deep gloom because not ‘even a posteard had arrived from Ricky.
Hewas sunk in deep gloom ot the prospect of being alone.
The news Jilled me with gloom.
Rumours of his il health cast gloom over the celebrations.
Their gloom deepened as the election results came in.
She felt gloom descend on her shoulders.
When the gloom finally lifts, the pessimists will be surprised at how much has been going right.
The nation was deep in gloom.
There isa general gloom about the farming industrs.
Despite falling demond, the year has not been all doom and gloom.
He peered into the gathering gloom.
The/og looked ominous in the evening gloom.
The sound of distant police whistles pierced the gloom.
Slowly, rmy eyes becarre accustoried to the gloom.
The sun went in and the house was ogain shrouded in gloom.
We sat and watched as the gloom descended.
We lost sight of them in the gloom.
Into the~ The tram ratled off into the gloom.
Two Sfigures materialized out of the gloom.
She could see the house fuintly through the gloom.
The future looked decidedly glooms.
The committee’s view was in foct for fromglooms.
Her trainer was even more gloomy about the prospects for British tennis.
They are driven by a craving for personalglory.
She basked in the reflected glory of her daughter’s success.
The force behind all Peter’s reforms was the greater glory of the Russian state.
He Covered himself in glory and came home a rich man.
Typical! Ido all the work and she gets all the glory.
Victory brought them glor fmeand riches.
It was 19-year-old David Hogan who stole the points and the glory with a brilliant goal in the closing minutes of the game.
We remember the team's glory days in the 1960s, when they won the World Cup.
In a blaze of glory! sb's moment of glory His moment of glory came when he won the Olympic downhill skiing event.
You cannot appreciate the bridge’s full glory by going over it; it is best viewed from below.
Thecity's crowning glory is ts Gothic cathedrol.
Autumn is the time to see the beech woods in all their glor restore sth to its former glory The eighteenth-century building has been restored to its former glory.
Your hair has lost its natural gloss.
Treat ‘her with kid gloves—she's very sensitive.
The lamplight gaveacosyglow to the room.
The sunset threw an orange glow on the cliffs.
The whole village was ‘bathed in the glowof the setting sun.
Our faces were lit by the faint green glowaf the dashboard lights.
Her cheeks had a healthy glow.
The wine had brought a warm glow to her cheeks.
She bathed in the warm glow of first love.
Hefelt aglow of pride s he watched them.
Two lamps glowed softly in thelounge.
Thestones around the ‘banfire glowed red with the heat.
She was positively glowing with hoppiness.
All you will need is asharp knife and apotof glue.
Put glue on both the surJaces.
He took to drinking and sniffing glue.
It takes about half an hour for the glue to set.
Glue the pieces firmly together.
Everything went very smoothly.
The holiday went very quickly.
The days seemed to g0 by very slowls.
Leeks and potatoes go well together ina soup.
That tie goes well with that shirt.
Thenovel went down well with the public.
Hegoeson endlessly about his health problems.
Stop going on at me about that maney.
He kicked the ball into an open goal.
The goalkeeper was inJured so a defender had to go in goal.
The fans were annoyed that the team gave away such a soft goal.
Vega scored an unfortunate own goal when he slipped as he tried to clear the ball.
Visconti scored one goal himself and made two for gold Lupo.
The refereedisallowed the goal.
The equalizing goal camefrom Cole.
The second goal came/rom a penalty.
They scored three goals against the ‘home team.
Spain~from A late goal from Owen won the game for Liverpool.
Immediate, short-term Our immediate goal is to earn enough money to keep the business going.
They have set themselves some ambitious goals.
We are all working towards a common goal.
The prison service pursues the twin goals of the punishment and rehabilitation of ofSfenders.
It is important to have explicit goals.
The England goalkeeper played brillianty.
He now plays as goalkeeper for Liverpool.
Tethered goats grazed among the apple trees.
Christian, Greek, Roman, etc.
Muslims have only ane God.
The peaple worshipped pagan gods.
God Nothing ever shook her faith in God.
God He saw theaccident as the will of God.
My swimming goggles heep steaming up so I can't see.
He spent weeks panning for gold in the river.
The rubies were setin 18<arat gold.
The currency was tied to the gold standard.
In the afternoon he struck @ rich vein of gold.
She gota gold in the lorg Jump.
She's going for gold this time.
The abbey walls gleamed golden in the light of the setting sun.
The whole sky turned golden and red.
Amateur golf is very competitive.
The hotel offers ‘miniature golf and other activities for children.
The eighth at BanfFis one of the world's great golf holes.
She decided 10 join a golf club.
You can borrow golf clubs if you want a game.
His coach says his golf swing needs improving.
She has a golf handicap of 18.
The club is holding a gol clinic next week, where golfers can get advice from the pros.
Choose from over 100 golf packages in our brochure.
She's been a goif widow since she gave her husband his first st of clubs.
You can iry talking to her; but I don'tthink it will domuch good.
When the prime minisler's health problems continued, he resigne for the good of the party.
In disadvantaged areas, schoolscan bea fore for good.
Iknow you don't wan 10 go into hospital, but its for your oun #00d.
That holiday has donemea power of good.
She's getting quite good at reading now.
You’ve donea pretty good job.
He's very good at music.
Vegetables are £00d for you.
She was very good to me when my husband died.
She's good with figures.
She was not exactly good-looking, but definitely attractive.
He was tall and quite good-looking.
The supermarker's own-label goods are cheaper than branded goods.
He was accused of handling stolen goods.
Thegoods will be delivered within ten days.
Addressing customers in their own language helps create goodwill.
They are in danger of losing the government's gooduill.
He expressed goodwill towards his former colleagues.
The government released him as a gesture of goodwill.
In a spirit of goodwill They made the offer in a spirit of gooduwill.
She preached the Christian gospel (o the poor and destitute.
Thousandscame to hear the gospel.
Ir's common gossip in the office that she's about to leave her husband.
Idle, malicious, salacious, it 1 heard an interesting bit of gossip yesterday.
Someone has been spreading malicious gassip about me.
You shouldr't listen to idle gossip.
Isaw itin the gossip column.
We had a good gossip about the boss.
She's having a gossip with Maria.
Te colony was governed directly from Paris.
He accused the oppos ition party of being unfit to govern.
Communist, Conservative, Labour, etc.
The socialists won 42% of the seats and formed a minorily government.
The president dissolved the assembly and swore in an interim government.
The report on world poverty calls for urgent action from Western governments.
The present government wos elected last year.
September of that year.
Ais crisis could bring down the Brit.
The group aims to averthrow the mill.
On May 23 a coalition government took office.
The government announced the cancellation of the dam project.
The hospital has been hit by government cuts.
According to government sources, two people diea in the incident.
The former minister was relieved of his post in last month's extensive government reshuffe.
This was a decision taken by the government of the day.
The prime minister has been meeting members of the French government.
We need strong government to take the country through this crisis.
She was appointed as acting governor untilan election could be held.
She served asa parent governor at her childrer’s school.
She was dressed in a long flowing gown.
She wore a white satin gown trimmed with lace.
You should register with a GPas soon as possible.
The GPreferred hertoa specialist.
He managedto grab acouple of hours’ sleep.
As he walked past the boys, one of them grabbed him by the arm.
He grabbed hold of a handrailtosave himself from falling.
With~Ann moved with easy grace.
He still wants to play top grade football.
The oral exam constitutes 10% of the final grade.
She got very good grades in her exams.
He has asked to be put onto a higher grade.
She was offered a job at a lower grade.
The timber is graded according to its thickness.
The containers are graded by size.
Eggsare graded from smalltoextra large.
The road has a falrly steep gradient.
He joined the company as a graduate trainee.
Thecompany placesgreat importance on graduate recruitmentand training.
Mark's whole family attended his graduation ceremony.
She managed to find a job immediately after graduation.
On graduation, he plans to travelaround Asia.
Graffitl was scribbled all over the walls.
The bulldings were covered with racist grafii.
Doctors are hoping to do a bone grafttorepair the damaged bone.
If the skin graft takes, then surgeons willdo another operation a few weeks later.
Starting anew business involves alotof hard grap.
Mostof the graft was done for them by their assistants.
This wood hasa beautiful natural grain.
Spelling and good grammar are both very important.
Arabic, French, Latin, etc.
This sentence is perfectly grammatical.
I'vesent photosaf thechildrento both setsof grandparents.
The full student ‘maintenance grant was rather less than £2 000.
The school has received a large capital grant to improve its buildings.
Arts Council, EU, government, local authority, atc.
Youmay be eligtble for a clothing grant.
You can get a grant if you've lived in the area for three years.
The government has awarded a 3.
The theatre’s annual grant from the Arts Council has been cut.
The laweffectively ‘grants the company immunity from prosecution.
The Judge refused to grant him bail.
The first grapes are harvested in mid-August.
The ‘peasants were treading the grapes in huge vats.
The statistics can be depicted as a graph.
The figuresareall plotted ona graph.
She drew a graph showing the relationship between costs and sales.
We can see on this graph how the comPpany has grown over the last year.
Results can be shown in numeric or graph form.
The screen can display simple graphics as well as text.
The program can produce and manipulate text and graphics.
The editor’s PC should support deskiop publishing and graphics.
Sheelt a firm grasp on her hand.
As she jumped forward, the ball slipped from her grasp.
She wrenched the bottle from his grasp.
The key was on a high shelf just beyond her grasp.
He kept the letter firmly in his grusp.
The robber tried tofvee the case from her grasp.
She kicked the gun out of his grasp.
Just when victory seemed within grasp, the referee blew his whistle.
The task was beyond the intellectual grasp of some of the students.
Intuitive We have nointuitive grasp of the immensity of time.
Working withnativespeakers helped me get a good grasp of the language.
These ideas are all beyond his grasp.
Her hands were grasping at his coat.
She ‘grasped him tightly by the wrist.
She grasped hold of the ‘banister tosupport herself.
He had not fully grasped the fuct that he was the one who would pay for all this.
Shefaited to grasp the significance of these facts.
He was quick 1o grasp the basic principles.
Some of these concepts are very difficult (o grasp.
I've walked along that path for so many years I knowevery bladeof grass.
Weparked on the grass verge by the side of the road.
They all set off across the grass.
You're not allowed to walk on the grass.
The dog came running through the long grass.
Sprinkle the top of the dish with some finely grated cheese.
The steel of the helmet grated against the door: on T grit beneath her soles grated harshly on the wooden deck.
We are deeply grateful 1o you and your family.
Jor their generous response.
Thank you for your help.
His father looked al- ‘most gratefut for once.
I'm Just grateful the injury is not as bad as we'd feared.
I'm really grateful for your help.
I'm immensely grateful to you for your support.
It is most gratifying for me to know that my work has been useful.
His kindness ‘and support earned him her eternal gratitude.
In~ Healmost wept in gratitude when he saw the ‘money.
Isent himsome moneyas a token of my gratitude.
We owe her a deep debt of gratitude or her services.
The body was found in a shallow grave in a nearby wood.
The mourners threw JSlowers into the open: grave.
His body is buried in an unmarked grave.
He rescued her from & watery grave (= saved her from drowning).
The grave was marked by a simple headstone.
Some of the graves have been desecrated by vandals.
The old lady still influences the family from beyond the grave.
The water flows from the tenk by gravity to the houses below.
Europe’s economic centre of gravity shifted northwards.
Idon't think you realize theextremegravity of thisaffence.
Criminal low does not treat traffic offences with the gravity they deserve.
She suffered only 'minor grazes in the crash.
Sheep were grazing peacefulty in the felds.
The catle wereturned out to graze.
She had grazed her elbow quite badly.
In/with The kitchen surfuces were all smeared with grease.
Place the cakes on a lightly greased ‘baking tray.
The play was averygreat success.
There's a great big hole in this sleeve.
Hewasa truly great man.
The food smells absolutely great.
This book tells you nothing about the true greatness of his paintings.
Her greatness lies in her deep understanding of human nature.
Hewasdriven by greed for moriey and power.
Note at LANGUAGE green adj.
The cloth looked slightly greenin thatlight.
The two men greeted one another warmly.
Stella greeted her mother coolls.
My parents were uaiting to greet us at the door.
The head teacher greeted all the pupils by name.
The news was greeted withastonishment.
He Jumped to his feetand called out a greeting.
They said nothing, but nodded a polite greeting.
The delegates shook hands and exchanged greetings.
Good morning?, butshedidn't return the greeting.
He brought Christmas greetings from the whole family.
We extend our greetings t0 you and thank you for listening to us.
Theseanimals are highly gregarious.
Jackers were armed with hand grenades.
She was ‘holding the grenade above her head, reads to throw.
The sky looks very grey.
He went grey before he wasJorty.
She was completely grey by the ageaf thirty.
The artistdrewasetof grid lines over the area to be painted.
An Ordnance Survey grid reference gives the position of a placeto within 100 metres.
Powercan be fed from wind gen erators into the electricity grid system.
Such behaviour can cause considerable grief.
Children can feel real grief at the lossof a pet.
Some people will cornplain even If they have no genuine grievance.
By the 1530s social grievances wereagain being wiced.
She still nursed_ her old grievance.
Managers would make every offort to remeds individual grievances as they arose.
The meeting will be a chance to alr your grievances about the organization.
They are still grieving for their child.
Cook under a hot grill for 7 minutes.
Preheat the grill to medium.
Once the charcoal is glowing, place the Jood on the grill, turning it regularly.
She made a wry grimace.
Hisface twisted into a grimace.
An ugly grimace twisted her face.
He acknowledged his mistake with a wry grimace.
He grimaced slightly at the pain.
She grimaced at him.
Over the years, the painting.
Edmund looked up with an impish grin.
He gave the photographer a big grin.
Into, spiit into The old man'’s face broke into a grin.
His wry grin faded.
Fooled you!” he said, with a cheeky grin.
Tuke that rin off your face! wipe the grin off sb's face Il soon wipe that silly grin off her face.
He appeared in the doorway grinning broadls.
Hejust stood there, tongue-tied and_ grinning sheepishly.
She grinned apologetically when she saw him.
She relaxed and grinned wickedly back at him.
He loy grinning impishlyupat me.
He stopped eating togrin atme.
She grinned to herself at the thought.
They grinned with pleasure.
The coment need ot be finely ground.
Grind the seeds down 0 @ powder.
Ing, fierce, iron, painful, punishing, vice-like Her upper arms were seized in an iron grip.
He still had afirm grip on my arm.
Taking a tight grip on the hook, he began ta pull it towards himself.
Keep a secure grip on the ropeatall times.
Sheslipped and lost her grip of the rope.
Robert tightened his grip on her shaulder.
His gripslackenedand she tore herself away.
In alsb’s ~ Hold the microphone ina firm grip.
She was powerless in his vice-like grip.
She relaxed hergrip on thedoor frame.
Get 6 grip! ( take control of yoursels, your life, etc.
Keep We reed to keep a tight grip on costs.
They managed to strengthen their grip an the southern part of the country.
Sometimes I feel I'm losing mygrip (= losing control of mylife, etc.
In sth's~ Winter stil held them in its lran grip.
The government does notseem to have very firm grip on the economy.
Frm slouwly getting wgrips with the language.
She gripped hard at the arms of her chair by ‘Hegripped her gently by the shoulders.
Don't give in yet.
You have mare grit than that.
The team showed their true grit and played a magnificent game.
It takes sheer grittostand up toa bully like that.
He let out a loud groan of frustration.
He stood up slowly with a groan of pain.
Inwardly He groaned inwardly at the thaught of spending another day in that place.
She groaned out loud in protest.
There's na point in moaning and groaning about not having any money.
She is alioays perfectly groomed.
Running water had carved a groove down the face of thewall.
Shegroped blindly or the door handle.
The fall of the old regime provided Jertile ground for opportunism.
The helicopter burst into flames when it hit the ground.
She's sa shart, her Jeet don’t reach the ground when she sits doun.
The plane was so overloaded it couldn’t leave the ‘ground.
His plan is too castly to ever get off theground.
The roots may spread asfar belaw ground as does the foliage above ground.
He sat down an the ground.
The turnel gaes deep under the ground.
The village stands on high ground and is nat prane ta flaoding.
We found a patch of open graund in the middle of the woods.
Tll meet you at the football ground.
The palace is set in extensive grounds.
Many estate workers lived in cottages in the grounds of the castle.
Both ‘parties in the debate shared some common ground.
Several researchers have published articles covering this ground.
He knew he was an dangerous ground talking cbout money.
Her architectural designs have broken rewground.
The constable had reasonable ‘groundsforarresting her.
His evasiveness gave grounds for the suspician that he knew more than he was saying.
He resigned from his post an the grounds of ill health.
Drunkenness at work was sufficient grounds for instant dismissal.
His book is firmly grounded in memories of ‘hisown childhood.
All applicants for the job should have basic grounding in computer skills.
The course should give you a thorough grounding in financilmatters.
Our Jfears proved totally groundless.
The first meeting laid the groundwork for the final agreement.
The first year provides the basic groundwork Jor the pupils' study of maths.
She has a very wide group of friends.
The strangers who cametogether for thecourse soon became a cohesive group.
Disabled drivers are an ever-growing minority group.
He started smoking because of peer-group pressure.
Local parents have formed an action group to campaign for better road safety.
We divided the class ino small groups.
The group ormed back in 1992.
The group has split up and reformed several times with different musicians.
The gorillas go foraging for food as a £roup.
Thereare fifteen of us in the group.
Works in the exhibition are grouped thematically.
Eggs were grouped according tocolour and size.
They sat grouped around the fire.
The children were grouped by age.
These stories can be loosely grouped into three types.
The England team was grouped with Uruguay and Holland.
The names were ‘grouped under four different headings.
Well before a billionth of second had elapsed the universe started to grow exponentially.
Profits are expected to grow by 10% next yeor.
Her media empire grew from quite small beginnings.
She continued to grow in confidence into The village grewintoa town.
The small puppy quickly grew into very largedog.
Tomatoes grow best in direct sunlight.
She decided 0 let her hair grou.
The tree grew from a small acorn.
Small acorns grow intogreat ock trees.
The dog gavea threatening growl.
With a~ He spoke with G deep soft growl in his throat.
The fuctory has achieved a steady growth in out put.
The economy enjoyed the highest growth ratein Asia.
Communications technology has proved 1o bea growth area.
There was a rapid grouwth in the numbers of Pprivatecars.
Give the plants a good pruning to encourcge growth.
Lack of food had ‘stunted his growth.
Do you know anyone who might harbour a grudgeagainst you? gruesome adj.
He lifted the heavy box with a grunt.
He merely grunted at her and nodded his head.
Hisfather grunted at him as he left the room.
She asked him a question and he grunted in reply.
He grunted in pain.
She stirred the soup, grunting with satisfaction.
Grunting and groaning, they heaved thewardrobeup thestairs.
All our products come with a twoyear guarantee.
The car is still under guarantee, so you ‘should be able to get it repaired free of charge.
The garage gives a year’s guarantee for all repair work.
The contractors affer a fult money-back ‘guaranteeon all their work.
The country gives a constitutionalguaranteeof the rights of minorities.
We didn't get any firm ‘guarantee of a loan.
There was na guarantee against misuse of the king’s power.
The demonstrators were demanding guarantees for fair elections.
Driving into toun early is no longer guarantee of getting a parking space.
The complicated electoral system effectively guarantees the president's re-lection.
The process of training and qualfication does not auto- ‘matically guarantee youa job.
The outcome is by nomeans guaranteed.
The building is protected by armed guards.
Guards had been posted all aroundthe radio station.
Guards patrolledthe perimeter fence.
The accused was taken to courtunder armed guard.
Soldiers stood ‘guardon thecity gates.
The question seemed to catch him off his guard.
He was always on his guard against moneymaking schemes.
The prisoners were under close guard.
Two police afficers kept ‘guard over the burnt-out building.
Theguard was changed every two hours.
It would only be a matter of minutes before the alarm was raised and the guard called out.
Fellow soldiers from Corporal Smith's regiment formed a guard of honour at his wedding.
The mountain pass s well guarded.
JealousIy She jealously guarded her pasition of power.
The military base is closely guarded.
He was under instructions to guard the ke with his life.
She has become the selfappointed ‘guardian of the nation’s conscience.
The uillage people act as ‘guardians of the land.
The court appoints a legal guardian for thechild.
Urban guerrillas detonated a car bomb in front of thecompany's headguarters.
Ist, opposition, right-wing, separatist, etc.
Ten years of guerrilla resistance followed theoccupation.
Aprilis the best guess Jfor first deliveries.
Intelligent As a vet, he could make an educated guess as to what was wrong with his stomach.
At @ rough guess, I'd say we're about twenty miles from home.
How did you know?'It was just a lucky guess.
If you don't Know the answer, have a guess.
Ataguess, Idsay there'saproblem with the Juel pump.
He made a wild guess as to how much the piano might cost.
Jane had guessed wrong about who was responsible for the fire.
Youll never guess what she told me.
We can only guess how fast a dinosaur might haverun.
She ‘guessed from his expression that he had not won.
Sol was Rob who broke the window? I might have guessed! et me guess What star sign are you? No, let me guess.
Their results owe more toinformed guesswor than to actual knowledge.
Their price estimates are based on pureguessiwork.
Long-term forecasts were largely a matter of guesswork.
She was treated as an honoured guest.
The refugees were made to feel like unwanted guests in the country.
She had inited six guests.
She felt that she had to entertain her guests.
The athlete was chief guest at the schools sportsday.
The best man and his assistants weicomed thereception guests as they arrived.
The banquet was attended by 200guests.
Fitm star Matt Damon is ane of the spectal guests on tonight’s programme.
Guest artists Jrom all over Europe will takepart in the concert.
She made a rare guest appearance on the progromme.
Parents ‘eed to provide their children with firm guidance.
The handbook gives helpful guidance on writing articles.
These notes are for general guidance only.
She proyed for divine guidance.
We can give guidance to students on which courses to choose.
Children look to their parents for guidance.
Volunzeers are restoring the building under expert guidance.
The Careers Officer also offers guidance about university courses.
Guidance must be glven as to what tasks the learner should attempt.
The Safety Officer provides guidanceon firefighting and office safets.
Use the table below os a guide to how much washing powdertouse.
These figures give a rough gulde as to the sales wecan expect.
This book is the definitive guide to world culsine.
The book contains a quick reference ‘guide toessential grommar at the back.
Ie consulted our guides as we walked around the cathedral.
Their teacher Phil Bailey cargfully guides them through rehearsals.
He guided me inmy research.
He guided us through the intricacies of the divorce law.
She guided him across the busy road.
He guided her hand to hisface.
The organization has issued a set of guidelinesfor builders to follow.
The document gives clear guidelines on the se of pesticides.
We have to Jfollow thesafety guidelines loid down by the government.
The same general guidelines on when to dress formally apply to both men and women.
Within clear guidelines, managers can use their budget to entertain clients.
You needr’t feel any guilt about me.
Tolking to her helped tw assuagemyguilt.
He had no feelings of guilt over what he had done.
There is no doubt as to where the Built lies.
She was looking rather guilty when I came into the room.
He pleaded guilty tostarting the fire.
No one believed him guilty of this terriblecrime.
Company directors ‘may be deemed gullty of an offence If their company causes pollution.
She was certainly guilty, but the police couldn't prove .
She was guilty of fraud.
Twenty studens volunteered toactas guinea pigs.
Dealers used their clients as guinea pigs for their untried techniques.
As she sang, ‘strummed her guitar.
There appeared to be ¢ growing gulf between the prosperous south and the declining towns of thenorth.
This atrocity has created @ huge gulf betuween the two groups.
The documentary illustroted the gulf between industriclized and developing countries.
The new degree course aims to bridge the gulf be.
For many teachers, there existed an unbridgecble gulf between home and school life.
She took large gulp of wine from the bottle.
Shedrank the tea in great gulps.
He gave a loud gulp and stopped ‘mid-sentence.
T'm ajfraid Pve broken it she said witha gulp.
He downed half the contents of theglass in one loud gulp.
She gulped down her coffeeand lef.
Do you know where she is?" asked Chris, Themon gulped nervously and nodded.
The old man smiled to reveal toothless gums.
They succeeded ir silencing the enemy guns.
He raised his gun, aimed and fired.
Guns were firing and grenades going off all around.
This new gun shoots a laser beam ot the target.
There were several guns mounted in the back of the vehicle.
We're very short of guns and ammunition.
The gunman then turned the gun on himself and blew his brains out.
Seventy protesters were killed by indiscriminate gunire.
The terrorists boarded the bus and sprayed the passengers with gunfire.
Heay gunfire broke out inthe capital last night.
They were killed in an exchange of gunfire between riot police and demonstrators.
We heard gunshots round about michight.
He died of gunshot wounds tothechest.
The water emptied with a gurgle.
Hegave a low gurgle of laughter.
The wind came in great gusts affthe Pacific.
Ihad terrible pain in my guts after eating foo many plums.
It takes guts (o keep on running even though you have blistered feet.
She does gymnastics at school.
Irritating, nasty, unfortunate Li%e has a nasty habit of repeating itself.
She's got some veryannoying habits.
Hehad an irritating habit of singing tunelessly about the house.
Into, form, get into, make I had fallen into my old bad "habit of leaving everything until the last minute.
Try to getintogood habitsand eat regular healthymeals.
Make ‘ahabitof noting down any telephonemessages.
Don't let eating between meals become a habit.
You must break yourself of the habit.
Even last year the nation's eating habits changed significantls.
Much of what we do in daily life is done by habit.
Horses are creatures of ‘habit and like to have a daily routine.
Mr Norris bellowed from force of habit.
Itshardtochange the habits of a lifetime.
The houses were ot considered habitable.
The room was barely habitable.
Peat bogs are one of Europe's most threatened habitats.
The forest provides a habitat for hundreds of species of plants and animals.
Development is destroying theanimal's native habitat.
The many different habitats support a wide variety of birds.
Mary species are threatened in the wild due to habitat destruction by man.
The greatest danger to tigers now s through loss of habiat.
They hacked away at the dense vegetation.
Shehackedat the hedge with the shears.
The body had been hackedzo pieces.
The explorers had to hack their way through dense jungle.
The patient died from acute cerebral haemorrhage.
Twelve hours later she suffered a massive brain haemorrhage.
The company is desperate to halt the haemorrhage of skilled staff.
Hail fell shortly after lunch.
The hail melted once the sun came out.
We got caught in the hail.
His hair was tousled and he looked os if he'd just woken up.
She had shoulder-length black hair.
The rug was covered with cat hairs.
He had turned forty and was beginning t lose his hair.
She wore her long hair loose on her shoulders.
Tl be down in a minute, I'm just doing my hair.
He went to the barber’s to have his hair cut.
I've decided to have my hair permed.
T'mtrying to grow my hair.
His hair curls naturally.
Her blond ‘hair feltover her eyes.
You ought to smarten up ‘and havea haircut before the intervlew.
Hewas un ‘shaven, and badly needed a haircut.
Costs rose by a half in~ We divided the ‘money in half In the .
Over a half of ail the people interviewed said they were disappointed in the government.
He hurried them along the narra, dark hall.
There were strange ‘noises coming from the raom down the hall.
Our volces echoed round the huge bare hall.
More than 200members of the public packed the main hall at the community cenire.
The strains of the national anthem flled the hail.
His vaice echoed through the hall.
Most firstyear students live in the halls of residence.
For a moment I thought Iwas having hallucinations.
The car skidded toa halt just inches from the river.
Production was brought (o @ temporary halt when pawer supplies failed.
In @ halt In nuclear testing ~to The protesters arecalling for a halt to the expart of live animals.
The strike effectively halted production at the factory.
All these ideas for expansion were abruptly halted by the outbreak of wer.
The development programme has been halted inits tracks by this interventian.
The shares have more than halved in value since the summer high of 572p.
Overall aperating profits halved ta $2¢ million.
He swung the hammer with ol his trength.
The decision isahammer blow for the coal Industry.
They took a real hommering ot the hands of thelr opponents.
He affered a ltmp hand ta shake.
He clutched the cane in his clammy hand.
His hand, when she shaok 1s, was cool and firm.
He wiped his greasy handson the front of hisoveralls.
She gestured towards the window with an open hand.
She rested her chin in her cupped hand.
Her busy hands had transformed the tiny room into a work of ort.
He put a friendly hand on his friend’s knee.
She Jilled our glasses with a generous hand.
With a practised hand he motioned a waiter tobring a fresh potaf coffee.
She took the child's hand ond helped him climb the steps.
They walked along, holding hands.
She held an to my hand as Itried to leave.
He reached for her hand and held it tightly.
She pressed his ‘hand.
He shaok Blake's ‘hand as if they were long lost friends.
He shook hands with all of us before leaving.
She smiled and extended @ hand in weicome.
He put out ‘hand as if to touch her.
She put her hands to her cheeks in embarrassment.
He slid his hands inio his pockes.
Slowly Ruth withdrew her hand from his.
He lifted his hand to her face.
She raised her hand in farewell.
He threw up his hands in despair when he saw the damoge.
She shrugged ond spread her hands.
That's all I can tell you.
We were all clapping our ‘hands in time to the music.
He "had his hands clasped behind his head.
She clenched her hands in her lap to hide their trembling.
He rubbed his hands together in satisfaction.
He was sobbing and wringing his hands by the grave.
Her hand shook as she lifted the glass to her lips.
My hand groped for the door handle.
His handeventually found the light switch.
His handsclawed ot the muddy earth.
His hond brushed against hers.
Muriel's hand crept (o her neck to ‘hold her pears.
Her hand flew to her mouth.
His hand froze in mid-gesture.
My hand ‘hovered over the switch for a moment.
His hand rested on her shoulder.
Her hond lifted to place a cigarette in her mouth.
Her hand movedto cover his.
You can take your laptop on the plane os hond luggage.
Delicate clothes should be washed by hand.
The rocks looked like they had been shaped by ‘human hands.
She had a piece of paper in her ‘hand.
Can I leave these queries in your capable hands? on your~ She had large rings on both hands.
Operate the gears with your left hand.
Guards made sure that the food supplles didn't all into the wrong hands.
Your hands on sth I desperately need (o lay my hands on Some money by Monday.
In hand They walked hand in hand along the path.
She stood in the doorway, hands on hips.
He re tired feeling confident that his company was in safe hand.
He was on his hands and knees, looking for a contact lens.
She Studied theobject in the palm of her hand.
Clive ran a hand through his hair: with your bare hands He killed the lion with his barehands.
At harvest time all the villagerslenda hard.
The strotegic alliance served to strengthen the country's hand in the region.
In Several of his colleagues had a hand in his downfall.
She felt that life had dealt her a bad hand.
She handedout theexam papers.
He handed the book: to Sally.
She was rummaging in her handbag for her keys.
She had her handbag snatched as she sat having a coffee.
She took a pen out of her large leather handbag.
She put her purse into her handbog.
The policeman slippeda pair of handcuffs on his wrists.
The other policeman put the handeuffs on him.
In~Hewas taken away in handcuffs.
She bent and pulled up a double ‘handfulof weeds.
She grabbed handfuls of the dirty snow.
He has good handful of letters after his name.
She can'tdrive becauseof her visual handicap.
Over a million people in Great Britain suffer from mental handicap.
She has managed to overcome her physical handicaps.
Lack of transport was ¢ major handicap.
If you don't speak the language, you've got a real handicap.
His lack of ‘heightcan provea handicap against tall players.
This could be a serous ‘handicap to her education.
Steven was born severely handicapped.
An accident at birth left him badly ‘handicapped.
He ‘blew his nose on a grubby handkerchief.
The table folds up and comes complete with carrying handle.
You have to turn the handle and then pull it towards you.
He tried the handle but the door was locked.
His initials were on the knife handle.
Garden tools can be hazardous if carelessly hardled.
Many of the pris- ‘oners were roughly handled; some were killed.
This issue may need t0 be hanled carefully.
The library routinely handlesa widevariety of enquiries.
This was a problem that 1just couldn’t handle.
She knew how to handle publicity.
Large meetings are notoriously less productive ‘and more difficult to hanlle.
She handled the crisis with total assurance.
Timid children need gentle handling to build up their confidence.
Issues such as drug addiction require sensitive handling when featured in TV dramas.
She was praised for her competent handling of the crisis.
All those eligible will receive a cash handout.
More information can be found in the ‘handout.
Wewere given a handouton job hunting.
She wasn't impressed by his timp handshake.
He had a firm handshake.
Fawceit gave me a hearty handshake.
With a~ They sealed the agreement with a handshake.
He was young and devastatingly handsome.
Her handwriting was neat and legible.
Her handwriting is very difficult to read.
Inyour~ She copied out the lines i her best handwriting.
Thearrangement was handy for both of us.
Always keep a cloth handy to wipe upany mess.
The house was near Drury Lane, very handy Jor the theatre.
I'm pretty handy at giving out advice,’ claimed Mark.
He had lost weight and the suit hung loosely on him.
Her injured arm hung uselessly at her side.
The monkey was hanging by s tail from the ‘beams overhead.
Banners hung from every windouw.
She hung on for dear life.
Hang on to (= kaap) thase old photographs-—they may be valuable.
Martin tried to hold on with his toes as well as his feet.
Hang on a minute—TI'll just see if he's here.
She's always hankering after excitement.
Istill hankered for thefarm life.
The local authority's approach to health care seems totatly haphazard.
The town had grown in a semewhat haphazard way.
Sometimes fun activities just happen.
They could only wait and see what was going to happen.
Misiakes are bound fo happen sometimes.
What tends to happen is that students spend the Jirst week of the course in.
You have to make things happen i youwant them 1o happen.
Don't ust it backand tet it happen.
Living together before you marry is no guarantee of future hoppiness.
Her face was glowing with happiness.
It s easy to believe that money brings happiness.
You carot buy happiness.
He was weeping with happiness at being free.
Outwardly the couple appeared happy.
Ardrew felt happler than he had been for a long time.
Money won’t makeyou happy.
He went homefrom time totime, to keep his mother happy.
We'd be only too happy to accept your invitatior.
Murm seemed perfectly hoppy with myexplanation.
For the frst time in her life, she felt truly happy.
Her boss was not entirely happy about the situation.
I'm nottoo happy about her attitude.
So you're getting married, I hear.
I'm really happy for you! with Jwas quite happy with the way things went.
It had been a gloriously happy time.
She had been sexually harassed atwork.
She hod been subjected to continual sexual harassment.
Into, enter Theyentered the harbour with flags fying.
The damaged vessel was towed into harbour.
We salled out of the ‘harbour at daybreak.
The chairs flt hard and uncomjortable.
The toffee was rock hard.
Life got very hard.
If you tell the children the answers, it ‘only makes it harder for them to do the work on their own.
Ifind sth Ifound the exam quite hard.
His second "book came out in hardback last month.
In~If's onlyavailable in hardback.
Students may sufJer severe financial hardship as a result of the govern- ‘ment's decision.
They have already survived considerable hardship.
The union made hard.
In~ They are living in genuine hardship.
The old wasno real hardship to me.
In times of economic hardShip, firms cut back on training.
The laptop drawing tablet is very useJful piece of hardware.
This application runs on @ wide variety of hardware platforms.
He was clearly intent on inflicting serious harm on someone.
The huge fall in exports has done a great deal of harm to the economs.
I'm sorry if upset you- I didn’t mean any harm.
No one wishes you harm.
The children were removed from their parents to prevent harm to them.
She tried to shield her child from harm.
The drugs he was prescribed did him more harm than good.
Misusing drugs in pregnancy can serlously harm sour baby.
These products are often positively harmjul.
Lot of these chemicals are potentially very harmju.
Not alt virus inJections are necessarily harmful to vines.
These pesticides are environmentally harmful.
He looks harmiess enough.
The substance is harmless topeople.
They've lived together in reasonable harmony for many ears.
On the surface, their life seemed a model of domestic harmony.
They try to maintain harmony between the two communities.
The Church tries to promote raciat harmony.
They work together in harmony.
They try to foster harmony between different groups of ‘people.
She Jastened the safety harness tightly round her waist before starting the descent.
By means of pedals, a harp can beset inany desired key.
He is aliways harping on about the war.
Don't keep harping on ‘aboutmy age! harsh adj.
It may seem harsh tocriticize him after his death.
He accused her of being unduly harsh.
In, gather (in), get in, reap They were busy getting the harvest in.
Weare now reaping the harvest of our hard wark last year.
The strawberry harvest failed becauseof thedrought.
Potatoes are normally sproyed after ‘harvest.
During harvest they work from dauwn todusk.
They fuced interminable legal hassles if they wanted to claim compensation.
He gave me s much hassle I decided it wasn't worth it.
It saves a lot of hassle if you buy them by post.
Camping holidays aren't really worthall the hassle.
She got the computer set up with no hassleat all.
I've had somuch hassleover this business.
Package holidays takeall thehassle out of travel arrangements.
She worked with frantic haste.
Indecent, reckless, undue He accused the ‘government of undue haste in bringing in the new law.
They obvlously left in great haste.
In his haste toget home, heforgot togoto the library.
He ‘married again with almost indecent haste.
They approached without haste.
The ships were ordered to sea withall haste.
The doarman tipped his hat as we entered.
The gavernor wore acocked hattrimmed with white feathers.
Leave the hatch apen.
The engineer was peering into the service hatch.
She opened the serving hatch and putthesoupon the counter.
She lifted the hatch and slid it away from the opening.
They battened down the hatches and prepared for the starm.
He ordered the hatches to be closed.
They got out through the escape hatch.
In her eyes he could see naked hate.
He burned with hate for everyone and everything.
She became a hate figure for politlcians on the left.
Jazz hasalways been a pet hateof mine.
For a moment she almost hated him.
Fe came to ‘hate the town, with its narrow prejudices.
He hated me for standing up to him.
She shot him a look of pure hatred.
He has a deep hatred of the police.
He is accused of stirring upracial hatred.
Shestaredat it in hatred.
Catholic minority ~ between the intense hatred between the two communities ~for Ifelt no hatred for him.
When Ishout, givea haulon the rope.
The thieves got away with a record haul of 525 million.
The area wasa popular tourist haunt.
We've ‘been back to some of our old haunts.
He said he would come back to haunt her.
That decision came back to haunt kim in later life.
These visions continued tohaunt her for many years.
The aim is to create a safe haven for the thousands of refugees.
They were living in a safe haven aay from the fighting.
The wood is a haven for wildlife ~of This hause s a haven of peace compared with urs.
The new tax could wreak havoc among smaller companies.
High winds have been creating ‘havofor farmers.
The disease can cause havac incommercial orchards.
The flood wrought havoc on the countryside.
Thestorm caused havoc to wildlife.
Theog played havoc with light schedules.
The hawk swoaped low over the field.
He waited, watching her like a hawk.
The /reshly harvested hay was taken into the big hay barn.
Inthe~ The children were playing in the hay.
The rubbish under the flooring is a serious fire hazard.
Production of these chemicals poses serious environmental hazards.
The worst hazard we faced was having our maney stolen.
Go in September if you want to avoid the hazard of extreme heat.
Companies should have systems for dealing with work hazards.
Holes in the pavementarea hazard for blind people.
The burning of industrial waste is @ major ‘hazard to human health.
Try and reduce your exposure to hazards such as poor quality air: hazardous adj.
These conditions are very hazardous for shipping.
The sun now had a faint galden haze around it.
In the evenings a blue ‘haze hung in the valleys.
Meetings are always conducted in a haze of cigarette smoke.
He watched the world thraugh a haze of tobacco smoke.
The distant mountains looked hazy andmysterious.
Generally, it will be rather hazy today, with some hillfog.
The summers were hazy with pollutian.
My memory of that day is somewhat hazy nou.
I'ma bit hazy aboutmy family history.
She sat with bowed head.
The clty gates were adorned with severed heads.
He put his head round the door.
He hung his head in shame.
He threw his head back and laughed out loud.
They nodded their ‘heads in agreement.
He scratched his head.
Detectives have been left scraiching their heads over the stolen painting’s sudden reappearance.
He lay writhing on the ground, clutching his head in pain.
She buried her head in the pillow.
Her head tilted 10 one side as she considered the question.
His head droaped and tears fellinto his lap.
The thunder burst with a grand crash above our heads.
He put his ‘head in his hands, exasperated.
He dived head first into the water.
She got divorced and rushed head first into another marriage.
The ambassador dismissed him with a curt nod of the head.
She declined with a brief shake of the head.
She needed to keep a clear head if she was to remain in control.
It never entered my head that he might be lying.
He could feel his head spinning after only onedrink.
Ineed a calculator: inside your~ It was an accident, said a voice inside his head.
The Queen is titular head of the ‘Church of England.
We headed west for two days.
Let's head back home.
We headed straight bac toschool.
The committee will be headed jointly by two men.
He developed a severe migraine headache.
I've got spiitting headache.
We all get headaches from time to time.
Exhaust fumes made him drows and brought on a headache.
Red wine gives mea headache.
She had left the party early, pleading a headache.
Uneven cash flow proved to be a major headachefor the company.
These drugs come under the heading of non-medical substances.
I've organized what I have to say ‘about unemployment under three main headings.
He/lashed his headlights at theoncoming car.
The headlights shone on empty streets as we drove through the town.
My headlights finally picked out a road sign.
The car’s headlights Suweptacross the front of the house.
Carnage at Airport’, screamed the tabloid headline.
The Guardion carried the front-page headline ‘Drugs Firms Shamed'.
She's always in the headlines.
He always manages tograb the headlines.
The hospital hit the headlines when a number of suspicious deaths occurred.
The Story has been hogging the headlines for weeks.
Thestory was important enough to make the headlines.
The Sunday Observer had a headline saying, “Pop Star Arrested on Drugs Charges'.
The Doily Gazette run a story under the headiine ‘Pope’s Last Words.
There was a banner headline about drugs in schools.
The engagement of the two tennis stars made headline news.
The organization has its headquarters in Brussels.
They're planning to close their headquarters in Washington.
They'reveryworried about this at headquarters.
She works at the company’s headquarters.
The wound hasn't healed properiy yet.
The poisoned food has been removed from the shops ‘and there is no threat to public health.
She's never really enjoyed good health.
You reed to maintain your physical and mental health.
She was nursed back to Jfull health.
Her health gradually improved.
His health began (o Jfait under the heavy pressures of the job.
Your doctor, midwife or ‘health visitor will advise.
Smoking is bad for your health.
In goad/poor health He felt in much better health.
He is unable to travel far because of his state of health.
The health servicecan't provide cosmetic surgery.
Are you going to have your operation done on the ‘national health service? under the~ This treatment IS difJicult to obtain under the nationat health service.
Her good diethad kept her heaithy.
The rare disorder strikes apparently healthy boys between the ages of five and twelve.
She looked pale, but otherwise healthy.
We have a very healthy diet.
Their lifestyle is quite healthy.
The economy is extremely healthy at the moment.
In Papers were piled in great heaps on the desk.
His clothes lay in a crumpled heap on the floor: on/onto althe~ Throw the potato peelings on the compost heap.
These workers are at the bottom of the econormic heap.
He's getting old and he can't hear verywell.
Distantiy he heard the report of another gun.
Sheep? It sounded so unlikely that Julia didnot think shecould have heard aright.
Michael what he wanted to hear.
Let's hear you sing.
I've heard about thissortof thing before.
On hearing of his plight, the council offered him a home.
We ‘hear very little about these issues nowadoys.
Whales have acute hearing.
She lost her hearing when she was a child.
His hearing began to deteriorate.
Her hearing was already going.
Two months after theaccident her hearing came back.
You'll have (o speak more loudly.
Most councils hold ‘hearings in public.
Protesters arecalling for a public hearing.
She said that she had had a very fair hearing from the disciplinary tribunal.
Ata preliminary hearing the judge an ‘nounced that the trial would begin on March 21.
She was granteda divorce in a five-minute hearing.
Pending the hearing of thecase bythe court, the business wilt be atlowed 1o continue trading.
High Court judge dismissed the case without a hearing.
At least giveour ideasa Jair hearing before you reject them.
You haven't got ‘muuch chance of your plan getting a sympathetic hearing.
All 'masking is a fair hearing for my ideas.
Her judgenments are based on hearsay rather than evidence.
She discovered a world of parties and pleasure she had hitherto anly known by hearsay.
They started ta piece the story together from hearsay.
The heart pumps blood through the body.
With a heavy heart, she watched himgo.
He set aff witha light heart.
She hasa kind heart.
He broke her heart.
Her heart leapt with joy.
My heart aches when I think of their sorrow.
Our hearts go out 1o (= we sympathize deeply with) the families of the victims.
Atheart he is a republican.
Tcould tell he spoke from the heart.
Inmy heart, I knew it wasn'ttrue.
Her novels tend to deal with affairs of the heart a change of heart (- a change of attitude) He could have a change of heart and settle down to family life.
He committed himself heart and saul to the cause.
Kind/cruet person) (= no sympathetic feslings).
Let's sing it ane more time fram the beginning —and putsome heartintait!sick at heart (= ‘very unhappy), with all your heart [ wish you well with all my heart.
The distinction between right and wrong lies at the heart of all questions of morality.
The committee's repart went to the heart of the government'’s ditemma.
Wellive in the very heartof thecity.
She died of a massive heartattack.
He suffered a Jatal heart attack whilecyciing.
The party has lost seats n its traditional heartland of southern Thailand.
The sail is baked dry by the fierce heat of the sun.
If circulation is imPpaired, the body cannot loseeexcess heat.
Everything he did was at white heat and lightning speed.
Even after the sun had set, the stones continued to give out heat.
The thick walls retain the heat.
Darker surfaces absorb heat.
Being a ‘metal, aluminium readily conducts heat.
Computers, faxes and photocopiers all generate heat of their own.
He tried to ignare the ‘heat building upin the confined space.
We walked ‘more than ten miles in the bistering heat.
Daily the heat grew.
Ican't work in this heat.
To avoid the heat of the day we went out in the mornings.
Chocolate should never be melted over direct heat.
Towards the end of the cooking, turn up the heat to brown the outside.
Bring to the boil slowly, then remove from the heat.
Make sure the pan is off the heat.
Cook on a low heat for five minutes.
Simmer the sauce over a gentle heat.
He stared at her, sudden heat in his eyes.
Heat flooded her cheeks.
It was your hare-brained idea,’ Henry said with heat.
She spoke without heat.
Michael bitterly regretted those angry wards, spoken in the heat of the moment.
Heat the sauce gently for a few minutes.
Allow the food enough time to heat through.
They heatup the food ina microwave oven.
The flat has gasiired central heating.
We ‘haven't had the heating on this evening.
They are afraid to put the heating on because if's 0 expensive.
They have their ‘heating turned off during the morning.
We're having central heating installed.
The ‘heating was on but the window was open.
Our heating goes off ateleven o'clock and comes on again at seven.
The heating doesr't work.
The house was very cold because the heating had broken down.
She gave a great heave and the box inched forward.
Our child seemed a gift from heaven.
Aigurative) Itwas a marriagemade in heaven.
In~ The kids werein absolute heaven ot the fair: © PHRASES a heaven on earth The island is truly a ‘heavenon earth.
Building upa tan by the pool with a good book ismy idea of heaven.
That bax israther heauy.
The rain was gelting quite heavy.
Trim the hedge and collect the trimmings.
She tooka potato from the fire and sat backon her hes.
The punch rocked him back on his heels.
He rocked back and forth on his heels as he laughed.
He turned an his heel and marched away angrily.
The officer clicked his heels together and saluted.
She caught her heel andripped.
She came up the path with tuo little dogs at her heels.
For years the nation had been under the heel of a dictatorial regime.
They reached the border with the police hot on their heels.
He drew himself up to his full height and glared at us.
Her great height was rather a handicap.
The ‘plants growto a moximum height of 24 inches.
The object had clearly fullen Jfroma considerable height.
Bring your hands to shoulder height.
The pilot was urable to maintain heigh.
The balloon reached a height of 20 000 feet.
The animal lives in lakes near Mexico City.
They werethefirstexpedition to scale the heights of Everest.
The pattern of theancient fields is clearly visiblefroma height.
The group's popularity reached new heights when they got a top ten hit.
This lotest attack has greatly heightened fears of anall-outwar.
Seeing others enjoying themselvesonlyserved to heighten his sense of loneliness.
The socialists saw them.
He planned to marry and produce an heir for his estate.
At the age of twenty he fell heir toa largeestate.
The brooch is a family heirloom which came down to her from her great-grandmother.
He flew helicopters during the Gulf Wor.
The helicopter ‘hovered aboue the air strip.
The victims were flown to hospital by helicopter: in althe ~ There were three people in the helicopter when itcrashed.
He was terrified of going to hell when hedied.
Lava poured out of the volcano, glowing like the fires of hell.
The last few weeks have been a living hell for the refugees.
She's been going through hell with that bad tooth.
Her boss is making her life hell.
We're living in hell," said one of the refugees.
It really was the holiday from hell—-it rained all the time, we all got colds, and we ‘missed the plane home.
For someone who doesn't like heat, Florida would be hell on earth.
Invaluable, re tial, tremendous, valuable You've been a big help— thanks.
It's a great help having you around.
Thisisthe Sirstscheme to offer real help 1o working mothers.
The carcers officer gives direct help as well as advice.
The system is based on mutual help rother than on_payment for services.
The homeless centre relies entirely on voluniary help.
They can usually manage by themselves, but occasionally need outside help.
When the symptoms persisted, I decided to seek medicalhelp.
Policeare appealing for help in catching the killers.
He enlisted the help of a private detective in his search for the truth.
He ran to get help.
Passers-by came 10 the woman’s help when shewas mugged.
He lay injured for four ‘hours before help arrived.
For further information, phone our helpline.
Some of the injured animals were beyond help and had to be destroyed.
With alittle help, I think I could fix the computer myself.
The training centre prouides special help for the long-term unemployed, ~from With help from a parent, a child con do simple cooking.
Local teachers provided invaluable ‘help in deteloping the material.
She's been a big help t0 her father.
He'll need help with this homework.
The fomily's request for help went unanswered.
In need of help The man was clearly In need of urgent medical help.
He rudely rejected her kind offer of help.
She helped the old man out of the car: with Weall help with the housework.
The whole process was greatly helped by the widespread cvailability of computers.
It certainly helped that her futher is a duke! © VERB - HELP be designed to The minimum wage is designed (o help people in low-pay service industries.
Iron helps in the formation of red blood cells.
Herecruited band of willing helpers.
Thonk sou, you have been most helpful.
Demanding peace short of victory would not be at all helpJful.
This information would be extremely helpful Jfor teenagers.
Graphs are helpful i presenting the infor- ‘mation.
Heuwas quite helpful on how to do the accounts.
The lifts will be helpful to the older patients.
Ihad an extra helping of meat.
Join felt completely helpless.
He lay helpless in the hospital ward.
He was left helpless and alone.
She was rendered helpless by panic.
She was helpless against his strength.
Kirk stood helpless before this giant of a man.
She was helpless withanger.
The hen layed three beautiful speckled eggs.
Add a teaspoonful of mixed herbs.
Serve cold, garnished with fresh herbs.
The Jfarm hasonlya small dairy herd.
The animals tend to graze in a herd.
She prided herself or standing out from the common herd (= being different from ordinary people).
Folk songs arepart of our common heritage.
Thecity has an exceptionally rich heritage of historic buildings.
He was one of the great football heroesof his day.
Einstein is the all-time hero of ‘many scientists.
She was an unsung heroof the British film industry.
The song remembers the brave heroes who died for their couniry.
Being short and overweight, he was an unlikely romantic hero.
Tired of playing the square jawed hero, he sought out more challenging roles.
In his war stories he portroyed himself as the all-conquering hero.
He returned home from the tournoment 6 conguering hero.
James Dean wasa cult hero of the fifties.
Bugs Bunny was one of my childhood _heroes.
In this album she pays tribute fo her musical heroes.
Jimi Hendrix was her guitar hero.
He was hatled as a hero afler the rescue.
The fight to save the forest turned him into'a local hero.
He died a national hero.
Hewasa hero toall his schoolmates.
John was no hero—he stood back as his friends approached the two armed border guards.
He struck suitably heroic pose.
Violettc is one of the great tragic heroines of Verdr's opercs.
She remains one of the unsung heroines of the Second World War.
Ske was thrilled to be interviewing her childhood heroine.
Alison hesitated a moment, as if she were waiting for him.
Something about his smile made her hesitate.
Ididn't hesitate about working with Craig.
Hestood hesitating over whether to join thefight.
There was a momentary hesitation before he replied.
Initisl After some initial hesitation, teachers seem to have accepted the newsystem.
After much hesitation, they decided to Leave.
She answered immediately, without any ‘hesitation.
After @ moment's hesitation, henodded.
At the first cold of autumn, manyinsects go into hibernation.
The lortoise spends the winter months in ‘hibernation.
Ske gavec loud hiccup.
He suddenly had an otfack of (he hiccups.
Iate tooquicklyand got hiccups.
This one defeat was the only hiccup in the team’s steady progress up the League.
Elephants have a very tough hide.
The hideis tanned for leather.
She wanted to run ‘away and hide.
He accused the prime ministerof preferring to hidefrom the truth.
He hid behind a false identity.
He had a weak ‘mouthwhich he hid beneath @ moustache and beard.
He hid the book under his bed, PHRASES corefully/complotelyiwell hidden The letters were well hidden in the back of the cupboard.
The buildings were half hidden by the trees.
The house was hidden from view by a large hedge.
The house was partially hidden ‘behind some trees.
I'llfind a better placeto hideit.
The government tried to hide the evidence Jfrom the public.
Into e had gone into hiding just after war broke out.
After the car had passed by they came out of hiding.
In~ The fugitive had spent five weeks in hiding.
The company's structure i rigidly hierarchical.
She isabove me in the hierarchy.
There was a clear hierarchy of power in the company.
Share prices reached an alltime high yesterday.
Thedrug gives you a tremendous high.
She's been on a real high since she got her exam results.
This show is our swansong—uwe want to Jfinishonahigh.
The real highlight of the trip for me was the visit to the Tower of London.
Recorded highlights of the match will be shown later tonight.
The highlight of the week was Saturday's firework displa.
These figures clearly highlight the difference in world living standards.
The peace talks merely highlighted the great gulf in understanding between the tuwo sides.
He was fined for obstructing the public highway.
We pulled off the highway ‘and stopped for a break.
They tore along the highway.
The boys havegoneon a long hike with the Boy Scouts.
It’sa hell af hike from Sydney to Perth.
The bus sped down the long hill.
Troops forced villagers to flee to the surrounding hills.
They climbed a steep hill and came 1o the village.
We 00k to the hills in a variety of four-wheeldrive vehicles.
Wooded hills rise behind the town.
India), town, village In the heat of summer the rich fled to the hill stations.
There are several lead mines in the hills above Grassington.
The church is perched on a hill ‘over afthe~ Ouver the hill lies another village.
On our left was a wooded hillside.
Many of the chalets are seton a hillside reached by steps.
The house was on a hiliside outside the town.
These killings have seriously ‘hindered progress towards peace.
Bulky clothes tendto hinder movement.
Having a car in the citymight prove a hindrance.
The cook needs room to get at the cooker; sink and cupboards without hindrance.
The new regulations are actually a great hindrance to teachers.
In=~ Their first scheme was deemed, in hindsight, ‘amistake.
This all seems obvious with hindsight.
It is easy to criticize others when you have the ‘benefitof hindsight.
He gave a broad hint that he was the verge of leaving.
Therewas a hint of amusement in his voice.
At the first hint of trouble, Iwill call the police.
The book gives some useful hints about 'how to plan your garden.
He hinted strongly that he would be resigning soon.
She hinteddarkly that allwas notwell.
Theproblems are only hinted at in the report.
Her hips were still narrow like a girl's.
She wiggled her hips seductively as she walked.
Twist your hips towards your opponent as you punch.
Her hips had spread since aving ababy.
My grandmother’s having a hip replacement.
He ook a swig of whisky from his hip flask.
Don’t carry money or documents in your hip pocket.
She was wearing a short blue dress, belted across the hips.
He had his leg amputated at the hip.
The gun could be fired from the shoulder or from the hip.
The kirt isstit to the hipon oneside.
He leaned casually against thedoor frame, hands on hips.
There are boats for hire on the lake.
The equipment is on hire from a local company.
The entire workforce was laid off and a freshone promptly hired.
Ski equipment can be hired locally.
Bicycles can be hired from several local shops.
There was a low hiss on thetape.
The snake gave a hiss.
Shedrew in her breath witha hiss.
Wecould hear thefaint hiss of escaping gas.
The gaslamp hissed gently.
Don’t be stupid!’ she hissed Juriousiy.
She hissed atme (o bequiet.
Go atway!" he hissed through clenched teeth.
Noserious historian today accepts this theory.
She is a writer as well as a distinguished modern historian.
Revisionist historians have questioned the accepted version of events.
Thedebate about the origins of the universe has been going on throughout recorded history.
Oral history enables us to take account of those many aspects of history that are not recorded in documents.
She created a piece of history by winning her fourthttle.
He will ‘godouwn in history as a wise adviser and a kind man.
He made history by being the first man to walk on the moor.
The regiment traces its history back to 1803.
The towr’s history goes back to Roman times.
Years later; family history repeated itself with Eve's daughters.
She has earned ‘her place in the history books.
The country has suffered several invasions during its histor.
There have been conflicts Such s this throughout histor.
This is a fascinating period of histor.
The team grabbed a slice of history heretoday (= achieved sth that will be remembered).
She has a long history of mental illness.
She familiarized herself with the case history of her new patient.
Ical, personal, sexual The doctor willneed some detalls of your medical history.
They had an affair once, but that's past historynow.
Give it a good hit & At last he managed to score a hit.
One of the tanks took a direct hit.
Shewas at the top of the terrorists’ hit list (= thelist of people they intended to kill) for over two years.
He claimed that a hit man had been paid £20000t0 kill him.
The show has been a smash hit.
The band are here to promote their latest charthit.
The series has been a big hit with children.
Shedidn't hit mevery hard.
Ataxialmost hit him as he was crossing the street.
Iaccidentally hit my knee on the desk.
In She hit him in the face.
He hit her with astick.
He was hit over the head witha broken bottle.
Our department 'has been badly hit by the cutbacks.
Some businesses have ‘been hit very hard by therise in interest rates.
Ijust hit out wildly in all directions.
In c rousing speech the minister hit out at ra cism in the armed forces.
There are always a few lastminute hitches at the dress rehearsal.
Everything went without a hitch.
In There's been a hitch in the plans.
If you are unsure of your HIV status, consider havinga test.
In~s Gold coins have been fourd in hoards in rmany parts of the country.
All the shouting had Ieft her rather hoarse.
Excitement made her voice ‘hoarse.
Heshouted himself hoarse, but stillno one came.
Her voice was hoarse from shouting.
Hisuvoice was hoarse with anxiety.
It turned out to be an elaborate hoax.
He described the deception as a cruel hoax.
The organizers staged a hoaxon some of the competitors.
She never had any time to pursue her hobbies.
Cyeling and Karate cre among her hobbies.
He takes photographs s a hobby.
She plays hockey in the winter.
He still had me in a tight hold.
Take hold of the handle and give it a hard pull.
Keep He kept firm hold on my hand.
He lost his hold on therock and was swept away by the tide.
She finally released her hold on me.
Hetightened his hold on her.
The allies lost their hold on narthern France.
Enemy forces have consolidated their hold on the northern province.
This had weakened his hold on power.
Henolonger had any hold over her.
Only ticket holders will ‘beallowed into theground.
Account holders with the bank qualify for @ discount on loans.
Job, office, post She wondered why the previous job holder had lef.
Themissile had torna jagged hole n thesideof the ship.
The wall was full of bullet holes.
We dug a deep hole to bury the animals in.
Shepunched two holes in each sheet of paper.
He had worn a hole i the knees of his trousers.
Zuprooted the tree and filled the hole with earth.
We used coment toplug the holes.
The snake disappeared down a hole.
In althe ~ There was water in the hole.
We climbed through the hole.
Iused a sketwer to makean extra hole inmy belt.
The car was riddled with bulet holes.
We had a disastrous camping holiday.
Igot illandhad to cancel my holiday.
They also have a holiday home at the seaside.
The recession hit the package holiday business hard.
You should take out holiday insurance before you leave.
Their holiday romance turned into a lasting relationship.
They met whileon holiday in Spain.
This s your chance to win the holiday of a lifetime.
Christmas, Easter, summer The centre is ‘nowclosed for the Christmas holidays.
P'm taking the rest of my holiday in October.
She spent her holiday decorating the flat.
She had a holiday job as a gardener when she wasa student.
My aunt's coming to stay in the holidays.
I'm afraid Mr Adamek is on holiday this week.
The roads will be busy on Monday asif's a holiday weekend.
Snow lay in dark hollous.
Placing a child in public care is sometimes the only Solution t0 ilk-reatment in the natural ‘home.
She left her native home in Ireland and went to Americo.
These children badly need a stable and secure home life.
The lock-up gorage provides a secure home for your car.
More and more children in the school are from single-parent_homes.
They found their dream home on the shore of a lake.
He used (0 spend the summer painting at his country horme.
They also have a holiday home in ‘Spain.
The storm wrecked the JSumily's caravan home.
Priceless antique furniture was destroyed in the fire at the stately home.
These birds are in danger of becoming extinct as their forest home disappears.
The first time hevisited New Orleans he knew he ‘had found his spiritual home.
Come, get, go, make your way Lef's go homz—T'm tired.
He didrn't leave home until he was 24.
The people abandoned their homes and headed for the hills.
Perhaps we could find @ homefor the kitten.
He came from an appalling 'home background.
She had never had a stable homelife.
Iarranged to meet her in her affice, as she seemed more relaxed on her home territory.
My grandmother has a home help who comes and cleans twice a week.
Make sure you insure your home contents for an adeguate amount.
She desperately missed her home comforts while camping.
Fitting a burglar alarm isthe mosteffective way to increase home se curity.
Thisvideo is for home useonly.
We are ffering a free 15day home trial on our software.
The course s suitable for classroom or home studb.
She missed ‘her mother's home cooking.
I've tried all the home remedies for headaches without success.
He went missing while on home leave from prison.
We have a home movle of my dad teaching metoswim.
He claimed he had bought the cigarettes for home consumption, not to sell them.
The newspaper gives priority to home ‘news over international news.
Her jobmeans she's away from ‘home for weeks ot a time.
The hotel's friendly atmosphere makes it real home from home.
The show gives ‘home-grown musical talent the chance to show what they can do.
On the home front, the fuel crisis continues to worsen.
They were devastoted that they had to leave their beloved homeland.
He wants his children to grow up in his adopted homeland.
He longs to return to his homeland.
In a/sb's ~ They hope 10 remain in their homeland.
He found ‘himself homeless after his marriage broke up.
Three hundred people were made homeless by the earthquake.
The local authority ruled that he had made himself intentionally ‘homeless end was therefore not entitled to berehoused.
Seeing other families together made him terribly homesick.
They get masses of homework at secondary school.
The science teacher always sets a ot of homework.
I've got some homework to do on the Industrial Revolution.
The Jury returned a verdict of justifiable homicide.
Noteat CRIME (for verbs) honeymoon homogeneous adj.
He came out as homosexualafter his mother died.
She seems honest enough.
Let's be brutally honest about this: youhoven't a hope of succeedirg.
Heis ‘always scrupulously honest in his business actlvities.
My parents were always completely honest with me.
To be guite honest with you, I don't think he's the right person for the job.
She was totally open and honest about her feelings.
Don’t you believe me? *I don't know,* shesald with poinful honesty.
She had the honesty to admit ‘her mother wasright.
Who in honesty can blame her? ‘with~ She ansuwered the questions with complete honests.
He has the honesty and integrity to bechairman.
In all "honesty, the book was not as good as I expected.
He spread some honey or his bread.
We had a brief honeymoon in Paris.
After so many years of marriage, we're ‘planning asecond honeymoon.
They goon honeymoon the day after the wedding.
The honeymoon was over and the reality of what she had taken or began to dawn.
There was always a honeymoon period when Mum started a new job.
They can't decide where 10 go for their ‘honeymoon.
While on honeymoon in Bali, she learned toscuba dive.
He shared the honour of being the season's top scorer with Andy Cole.
Theyorganizeda party In his honour: PHRASES a guard of honour The princess's cofin was ‘accompanied by a guard of honour.
The president was guest of honour atthe soclety’s banquet.
The croud cheered white the athletes ran thelr lapof honour.
Theystood in stlence ‘asamarkof honour tothe drownedsailors.
He was ‘now satisfied that the family honour had been restored.
She Jelt she had to defend the honour of Her profession.
This biography does great honour to the poer’s achizvements.
She brought honour to her country ‘asan Olympic medal-winner.
In the return match the home team won 3-0 and honour was satisfied.
National honour is at stake n this maich between Franceand England.
He felt honour boundto help her.
Knights in the Middle Ages had a strong code of honour: 3 man of honour, a matter/point of honour It is a matter of professional honour to keep our standards as high as possible.
The Order of Merit is the highest civilian honour that can be conferred on someone.
She has confirmed that she will accept the honour of a peerage.
It was the British who scooped the honours at last night's Oscars.
Hewas madea life peer in the New Year's honours list.
He was buried with full military honours.
Al students taking honours in Greek may also study Modern Greek.
He's in the third year of his honours course.
She passed with second class honours.
My intentions were perfectly honourable.
He ‘walked into the room and pulled off his hood.
She put up ‘her hood when it started 1o rain.
He was wearing a blueanorak with the hood up.
Special pageat CLOTHES hooked adj.
People who are truly hooked will go to any lengths to satisfy their craving for the drug.
She's completely hooked on soap operas.
It is my fervent fope that you will be able to take this project forward.
Hopes are high that a resolution to the conflict can befound.
It ismysincere hope that she will find happiness at last.
He wasn't trying to give her fulse hope.
It seemed a forlorn "hope that we would find a taxi.
His early hopes of Jveedom were now gone.
He had one last hope to cling to.
Her dark eyes lit with sudden hape.
These figures killoff any lingering hopes of an early economic recovery.
Iiooked ot her and Jelta glimmer of hope.
Lord Mountbatten secretly cherished hopes that Charles would marry his granddaughter.
Polltical leaders do now entertain the hope that a settlement can be found.
Shesawlittle hope of meeting th targets.
The Mexican president expressed.
He pinned all his hopes on getting that joh.
This announcement has raised hopes that the crisis may be coming to an end.
Her hopes of going to university have now been dashed.
Her only hope lay in escape.
Hopes of a peaceful end to the strike are now growing.
Hope flared up inside her.
Hope faded after wrecked remains of the ‘ship were washed onto the shore.
She felt weak andwithout hope.
There s lttle hope that they will be found alive.
We now have good grounds for hope.
You haver't got a hope in hell of finding a job.
They have high hopes for their children.
Peace isa distant hope in this war-torn region.
She told me all her hopes and drearms.
He turned to her in despair and said, ‘You'remylast hope.
She is Britain's brightest hope for a medal.
The operation was Kelly’s only hopeof survival.
We may not be able to go.
The police remained hopefil that she would be found alive.
Only Janet, eternally hopeful, thought it was worth trying again.
She was not very hopeful about her situation.
The police are quite hopeful of catching the thieves.
Things aren't looking very hopeful at the moment.
There are some fatrly hopeful signs of recovery in the US market.
The situation seemed completely hopeless.
She felt lonely and completely hopeless.
I'mabsolutely hopeless at languages.
I've always been hopeless with machiner.
The sea stretched away to the distant horizon.
The sun was sinking rapidly below the western horizon.
Land was still out of sight beyond the horizon.
The moon wasrising over the horizon.
My first trip to the theatre broadened my cultural horizons.
His horizons didn’t stretch beyond his next night out.
They had become aware of possi bilities beyond their own limited horizons.
Hormones are secreted into the bloodstream.
Passing ‘motorists honked their horns.
Another horn blared behind me.
Impatient horn biasts began to ‘sound behind him.
Hegave a furious blaston his horn.
Mysister has always been horrible fome.
Police described the attack as horrific.
Some of thescenes we witnessed were quite horrific.
She raised her hands inmock horror when shesawmynew haircut.
She felt horror and pity at seeing Marcus so ill.
She had a horror of pubs.
Anna recoiled in horror as thesnakeapproached.
They were (ring foscare each other with korror stories about going to the dentist.
They watched in horror as the aircraft crashed to the ground.
To his horror, he saw a dead body lying beside the road.
Herealized with absolute horror that he no longer had the mones.
I'm trying toovercome my horror of insects.
He never experienced the full horrors of trench warfare.
He had witnessed horrors committed by the enemy.
He was ‘mounted on the finest horse you could ever see.
The race organizers became suspicious when the two most fancied horses finished last.
Three horses fell when a loose horse ran across the track.
They would need fresh horses if they were to reach the border the next day.
The brewery had 25 heavy horses delivering beer in London.
He g0t a part s the rear end of a pantomime horse.
Get my horse ready and wai for me.
She has a knack for hanalting horses.
He was jailed for 15 vears/or nobbling a horse that had been going torurin the Derby.
Several ‘horses trotted past us.
Thereare ten horses running in the next race.
The weary horse plodded up the hill.
The cart overturned, the horse plunging and rearing in its traces.
They passed an old horse pulling a cart full of apples.
The car in front was pulling a horse box.
He won second prize in a horse show.
He's had to go into hospital rather suddenly.
She works at the John Radcliffe Hospital.
He's been taken to hospital for tests.
We went to the hospitaltovisit my gran.
We wish (o thank the people of Norway for the warm hospitality extended to us during our recent visit.
We were glad to accept their generous hospitality.
You must allow me to repay your hospitality.
George wasa perfect host.
The village is playing host toafilmerew.
The tournament is to be jointly hosted by India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.
The country is very keen to host the Winter Olsmpics in six years' time.
Eight people were held hostage for four months.
The gunmen took 24 hostages.
Jforts toget the hostages released.
Westayed at a student hastel during the conference.
He lives in a hostel for the homeless.
The experience has made him generally hostiletowards women.
They were reluctant ta take any step that might beregarded.
He was deeply hostile to the idea of psychotheropy.
The audience gave him a downright hostile reception.
The press became uniformiy hostile to the new administration.
Mixedrace cauples Jfaced open hostility.
There was a barely veiled hostility in_her tane.
The prime minister was concerned that such a move would arouse public hostility.
Bath sides finally agreed to suspend hostilities.
Hostilities wereresumed later that year.
On the 11th of November 1918 hostilities ceased.
Germany in 1914 ~between Hostlities broke out betieen the two provinces tater that year.
It was unbearably hot in the car.
This weather's a bit hot for me.
They had been going steadily up for half ‘an hour and she was beginning to get uncomfortably hot.
His face grew hot at the memory of his embarrassment.
His forehead was burning hot.
Wash the tablecloth in fairly hot soapy water.
Bake in a moderately hot oven.
The ground was hat enaugh tofry an egg on.
The food should stay hot until we're ready toeat.
The containers keep the food hot for five hours.
Serve hot or cold ac: companied by bread and a slad.
Make sure the fat Is sizzling hat.
It was a luxury hotel with its oun swimming pool and restaurant.
The hotel is fully airconditioned.
In We're staying at a cheap hotel near thestation.
We checked into the hotel, then went for a walk along the beachfront.
The hotel features a lovely dining room cverlooking the lake.
The hotel offers excellent Jacities.
We're staying ina two-star hotel in the centreof thecits.
Dia! our 24- ‘hour hotline to find out if you have won a prize.
We could hear the hounds barking at thefox.
The hounds picked up the scentof thefox.
Days off were spent riding to ‘hounds (=hunting).
Isleptfor eight solid hours.
It takes fwo hours toget to London.
The performance lasted three hours.
An hour passed and she still hadn'tarrived.
They're paid by the hour for an~ She worked for three hours.
He's been gone for overanhour.
Top speed is 120 miles per hour: withi the ~ We hope to be there within the hour (= in less than anhour).
There are still two hours of doylight left.
She works very long hours.
He spends a lot of time in his office after ‘hours.
Doctors aften have to work outaf hours.
The office is closed between the ‘hours of twelve and two.
They built their own dream house overlooking the river.
They tived in a modest semi-detached house in the suburbs.
The great house stood on the edge of the village.
She shares a house with three other nurses.
We let out our house when wemoved to America.
Their house was repossessed when they couldr't keep up their martgage payments.
If's stressful moving house.
She kept house (= cooked, cleaned, etc) for her elderly parents.
The children were playing house.
They bought a dilapidated house when they got married, and are gradually doing it up.
We're hoping to extend the house.
Ile, stand The housestood @ short distance from the wood.
The house faces south, making the most of the sun.
They ‘helped us with our house move.
In the morning, the doctor makes house calls.
The former dictator is under house arrest in his country mansion.
He's happy being a house h ‘band while his wife goesout to work.
She went from house to house collecting signatures for her campaign.
It was so ‘hotoutside we stayed in the house.
Police are making house-ohouse enquiries following the discovery of the body.
Youll wake up the whole ‘house with that noise.
They played toa packed house.
Inadequately The losers in this society are the old, the sick, the jobless, the homeless ond badly housed.
The fish can be temporarily housed in @ smaller equerium.
The average household pays 27p a day in water rates.
Becoming an adult and setting up a household no longer mean the same thing.
The household contents are covered by a separate insurance policy.
The head of the ‘household is responsible for completing the Council Tox Jorm.
The company has made considerable savings through good housekeeping, such as avoiding wastage.
My financial problems ‘weremadeworse by my bad housekeeping.
Her hus- ‘band spent the housekeeping money on gambling.
The cook their own meals but they share the housework.
Her husband never helps with the housework.
Theairm of the scheme was to provide g0od low-cost housing for workers.
Inadequate, poor, substandard Many health problems are made worse by poor housing.
Public expenditure on social housing provision has doubled in the last five years.
Many new housing developments had sprung up around the city.
She receives a substantial housing allowance on top of her salary.
Ieceived housing benefit when [was unemployed.
Too many families are still living in substandard housing.
He was hovering anxiously outside.
Indecisively, uncertainly She ‘hovered uncertainly near the front door.
Phoebe was hovering in the background, uncertain what to do.
Thedog gavea mournful howl.
With a howl he lecpt ot his foe.
His com- ‘ments were met with howls of outrage.
They stood in a tight huddle, whispering.
Alittle huddle of men stood in one corner.
She found him huddled in a corner; shakingviolently.
Karen was huddled against the wall.
She loy huddled under the blankets.
She went offin a huff after losing thegame.
In 9~ He's in a huff because he wasn't invited.
Shegot in a huff ot being doubted.
Alison’s ina huff over the joke they played on her.
James went to his daughter ‘and hugged her tightly.
Hereached out and hugged her to him.
Her eyes grew huge.
Thisisa really huge amountof mones.
There's a potentially huge demand for this product.
He began to hum, somewhat tunelessly.
She was humming softly to herself.
Both countries say their intervention is purely humanitarian.
Gulit and a sense of com- 'mon humanity makepeople less harsh.
The museum is ‘equipped with sophisticated humidity controls.
Lowe was publicly humiliated by his colleagues.
In front of I had been assaulted and deeply hu- ‘miliated infront of all my friends.
He found the expertenceutterly humiliating.
The whole experience was somewhat humiliating for us.
He wasforced to face the ultim- ‘ate humiliation thenext morning.
She suffered the humiliation of having her house searched.
Sailed * PHRASES afoeling/sense of humiliation humorous adj.
She has written her description of him in a mildly kumorous vein.
The film is delightfullly humorous in the best traditions of romantic comedy.
With wry humour, they laugh at their misfortunes.
Her speech was serious, but not without the occasional touch of humour.
The man who lost his Shoes failed tosee the humour of thesituation.
Her good humour was restored by the excellent meal.
He was obviously in a good humour this evening.
Acting ona hunch, Twaited outside her house to see if she went out.
They now have a database of information to back their ‘hunches about customers’ preferences.
Iphoned ona hunch to ask if they had any work for me.
It is usual to feel hunger during exercise.
The new snack bar will keep those hunger pangs at bay.
About 60 prisoners havegone on hunger strike.
Peasant land hunger ‘grewever moreacuteasthe population swelled.
She hasan insatiable hunger for knowledge.
Seeing everyoneeating had made him extremely hungry.
We were all ravenously hungry after the walk.
She had never taken part in afoxhunt before.
Hunt followers deny the sport is cruel.
Police launched a nationwide hunt for the woman, amid fears for her safety.
Police forces in five counties are now involved in the murder hunt.
The investigation turned into a full-scale Com ‘munist witch hunt.
Detectlves leading the hunt for the Killer believe he may be in hiding.
The mountain rescue team is stepping up its hunt Jfor the missing climbers.
The hunt for survivors ‘has now been called off.
He was killed by a lion while big-game hunting in Africa.
Local people go hunting in the woods.
These waters area hunting ground for sharks.
The king builta large hunting lodge in the mountains.
Archaeologists ‘havecalled for a ban on treasure hunting in the regior.
We went bargain hunting at the antiquemarket.
Crowded markets area happy hunting ground for pickpockets.
She cleared the Sirst few hurdles easily.
His horse fell at the final hurdle.
The first big hurdle in putting your car on theroad is getting insurance.
This is perhaps the most difficult hurdle that we foce.
We'lljumpeach hurdieas we come o1t > You haveaiready (overcome the first major hurdle by passing the entrance exam.
The plan fell at the first hurdle.
Thefields were devastated by the hurricane.
The hurricane took severaldays to blow tsself out.
Theroof blew off ina hurricane.
Ina~ They were in a hurry to set off In no~She's inno hurry to find out how much her phone bill comes to.
In his hurry 10 leove, he forgot his briefcase.
She knew that she had caused her husband alotof hurt.
She fell and hurt her leg quite badly.
No one was seriously hurt in the accident.
My ankle still hurts quite badly.
Does it hurta lot?o Ouch! Itreally hurts.
Her remarks hurt "him deeply.
They never told me why and that really hurt.
Steve didn't look seriously hurt.
Roy seemed deeply hurt by this remark.
That was the day she met her future husband.
She suddenly walked out on her husband, leaving him to bring up the children.
They lived together as husband and wife for over thirty years.
Iy hush followed the explosion.
The builders were collecting their wages from the site hut.
The scheme housed children in large ‘numbers in prefubricated huts.
Many skin diseases can be prevented by good persanol hygiene.
The service began witha rousing hymn.
The movie failed to live up to allthe hype.
French team will be this season.
Scientists have proposed a bold hypothesis.
These observations appear to support our working hypothesis.
Noneof the hypotheses can berejected at this stage.
Her hypothesis concerns the role of electromagnetic radiation.
Her study is based on the hypothesis that language simplification is possible.
The results confirmed his hypothesis on the use of ‘modalverbs.
Unnecessary anxiety has been caused by media hysteria and misinformation.
She smashed the place up in afit of hysteria.
That thought was enough to bring on near hysteria.
She felt hysteria rising.
Eventually the hysteria died down.
Aids * PHRASES on the brinkipoint/verge of hysteria She was babbling, on the verge of hysteria.
Emily realized that she sounded hysterical.
Calm down, you're getting hysterical.
By this time Mary was almost hysterical.
Motorists have been warned about black ice on the roads.
The spray froze and formed great "blocks of ice on the front of the ship.
Ice had formed on the pond.
The ice was beginning to melt.
Roll out the icing into a large square.
Pipealittlegreen icing around the strawberries.
Trim off excess icing around the base.
Colour the remainingicing red.
Click the ‘modems’ icon.
The latest big idea is to make women more interested in sport.
Group counselling is used as an alternative idea to punishment.
The basic idea is that we allmeetup in London.
Her ideas are drawn mainly Jfrom Chinese art.
They managed to push the idea of moving office through the committee.
Most employees welcome the idea of a ban on smoking.
He kept turning the idea of resigning over in his mind.
Brainstorming is a good way of generating ideas.
The idea had long been mooted but nothing had been done to put it into practice.
She accused the company of stealing her idea.
Shealways triesto impose her own ideas on the rest of the team.
An idea began 1o form in his mind.
His ideas flowed Jaster than he could express them.
The idea for the Olympics originated with Pierre de Coubertin.
The idea has now blossomed into successful mail-order business.
The idea eventually led to the invention of the telephone.
We were asked to suggest ideas for improving efficiency.
She had the idea of advertising on the Internet.
Idor't know what todo, but I'm open to ideas.
The germ of his idea came from watching a bird make a nest have other ideas I wonted to take the week off butmy boss had other ideas.
It might be an idea to leavea note on the door for Mark.
He gave me a rough idea of what was wanted.
The book introduces the key ideas of sociology.
She has very definite ideas about what kind of a jobshe wants.
People have @ romantic idea of the police force.
Thaver't got the fulntest idea what she meant.
They seem to have got the idea that we will be giving them a lift.
You'll soon get the idea ( understand).
He hoids very differentideas to mine aboutdiscipline.
The book puts across complex ideas in a way anyone can understand.
Give careful thought to how to structure sour ideas in the essay.
He's absessed with the idea of getting a motarbike.
Some students slarted wearing denim, and the idea caught on.
She's got some funny ideas about how to motivatestaff ~behind The idea behind the ceremany is to ‘keep the gods happy toensure a good crop.
Swimming inanicyriver isnotmy idea of fun.
Sam was a real leader who had ‘highmoral ideals.
Thisis not an unatiainableideal.
This agreement falls far shart of the ideal.
She was accused of belraying her polilical ideals.
The hotel's size makes it ideal for large conferences.
Language learning often takes place in a less than ideal environment.
The houses are absolutely ideal for families with young children.
Different spreadsheet packages tend to be similar; though not necessarily identical.
The ta hases were mare ar less identical.
This knife is identical fo the one used in the attack.
She was unable to ‘makea positive identification of the suspect.
Always carry some identification.
The police checked their identification.
The vehicle's identification number is stamped on the engine.
My only means of identification was my cheque boak.
The new test will enable us toidentify more accurately patients who are mostat risk.
Someone has to formally ide tify the body.
Al three structures dated ta the third century and were tentatively identified as shrines.
The newspaper declined to identify the source of the allegations.
She identified strangly with the ‘main character in the play.
He was discovered living under an assumed identity in South America.
This is obviously a case of mistaken identiy.
They are stll strugeling toestablish their identity as a political party.
The company forged its own identity by producing specialist vehicles.
He felt that havinga jobgavehiman identity.
He changed his identity and ‘moved abroad on his release from prison.
She was given a false passport and assumed a new identity.
He refused to reveal the identity f his ciient.
Her voice was disguised to conceal her identity.
The victim picked out her at.
Scatland has never lost its identity as a separatenation.
The police officer asked him Jor proaf of identity.
His search for his cultural idenity took him to where his parents were barn.
The party’s policies were based on prejudice rather than on any coherent ideology.
Manxist, revolutionary, socialist, etc.
The party had a Marxist idealogy.
They distanced themselves from the upper class and adopted a communist iceolog.
She never lifis a Jfinger to help.
Half their machines are lying idle.
The pumps are standing idle.
The land was left idle for year's.
By this time Pitt had become teenage idol.
Teenagers made Dean their idol.
The burning foam generates such heat thatother items in the room can ignite sponianeously.
The gunpouder sometimes fails toignite.
She got into the carand suitched on the gnition.
Imust have left my key in the ignition.
He showed a remarkable ignorance of the Jacts.
He was kept in ignorance of his true identits.
She remained in blissful ignorance of these events.
Many lives are lost through ignorance.
There s still widespread ignorance about this disease.
The general public remained totally ignorant of the danger.
Wewere kept ignorant of the facts.
He was completely ignorant about the country's political system.
The government has simply ignored the problem altogether.
Her ‘mother’s opinions on how babies should be cared for were Jreely given and duly ignored.
The diesel fumes from Oxford's buses are not easily ignored.
The managers have conveniently ignored these statistics.
Safety guidelines had been blatantly ignored.
She sat at her desk and studiously ignored me.
He blithely ignored her protests and went on talking as if all were agreed between them.
The judge chose to ignore the views of the doctors.
Safety standards are widely ignored in the industry.
The pernicious effect of this advertising on children is a problem that we ignore at our peril.
Did you think I'd ignore the fact that you were sufJering from shock? sth can be safely ignored (ironic) These people occupy such a marginal position in society that the authorities think they can be safely ignored.
His mother is seriously ill in hospital.
Robyn was almast Ul with excitement and outrage.
Their action was judged illegal by the International Court.
The sale of these knives should bemade illegal.
Prizefighting remained popular, though technically illegal, until the 1850s.
It is quite llegitimate to argue that the government had no choice.
Illiteracy rates have fallen inrecentyears.
People judged to be functionally illiterate lack the basic reading and writing skills required in eversday life.
Badly fed children suffer a lot of minor illnesses.
You can have any illness or disease: I'm waming you—tve got a bad cold.
Have the kids had chickenpox yet? Get can be used with diseases or linesses that you often have: He gets really bad hay fever every summer.
Suffer from is used in more formal contexts and with more serious diseases: This medicine is often recommended for patients who suffer from orthrii.
He contracted a serfous iliness and died a month later.
The drug is used to treat a wide range of illnesses.
The immune system enables the body to fight off iliness.
She feigned illness so that she wouldn't have to 8010 school.
She nursed her father through his final iliness.
The mystery illness affected hundreds of peoplein the city.
He's just returned to work after iliness.
Martin's interpretation of this paradox seems the best.
They suffered illtreatment at the hands of the guards.
The room wasdimlyilluminated by the soft glowof his bedside lamp.
The study of the presentalso helps to illuminate the past.
The skylight will provide good llumination from above.
Most of theiltumination came from candles.
Tv believe you have nothing mare to learn is a dangerous ilusion.
The road ahead looks wet, but infact thisisan opticat tlusion.
They are under no illusions about the difficulties ahead of them.
They are trying to maintain the illusion that the company is in go0d shape.
Within the first week at university all my illusions were shattered.
Now s the time to shed our illusions.
She had no illusions about her attractiveness to men.
It turned out that their ‘happy marriage was all an illusion.
The new edition is heavily illustrated with photographs of aircraft.
The dire consequences of chronic underfunding are nowhere better illustrated than inthe natior’s schools.
His question merely illustrates his ignorance of the subject.
Two examples serve to illustrate this point.
The kite s assembled as shown in the illustration.
Let us takea very simple llustration.
Chicagoservesasan iltustration of the problems faced by such cities.
Explain the policy of détente and provide some itlustrations of how it worked in practice.
Lwill use onerecent example as an illustration.
He quoted several famous writers by way of illustration.
The party needs to clean up its somewhat tarnished image.
She was aiming for a wholesome, girtnext door image.
Champagne houses owe their success to brand image.
Trie group has failed to tive up 1o its macho image.
The industry is trying to shed itsnegative image.
Ilike to build up images of the characters andsetting before I startto write.
Treating disabled people like children only reinforces negative images of disabilit.
Charitywasa mirror image of her twin.
The return journey was almost a mirror image of the outward one (= the same things happened in thereverse order).
The visual image is steadily replacing the written word.
Each illustration is displayed as a complete screen fmage.
Tt was forbidden to worship graven (=carved) images.
You can store these images in a separate computer file.
The display Juxtaposed images from serious and popular art.
Ilustration may come between the text and the reader’s own mental imagery.
To such poor people, the idea of having a choice of foodis barely imaginable.
Imaginable They live in the worst conditions imaginable.
They had every imaginable colour.
They had every calour imaginabie.
It was the most boring film imaginable! imaginary odj.
The characters in this 'book are purely imaginary.
It requires a strong effort of historical imagination to understand the Roman attitude to death.
Today's pop thusic lacks imagination.
It does not take great imagination to guess what happened next.
Tire, Inspire, seize, stimulate, stir Victorian writers fired the popular imagination with their tales of adventure.
Dinasaurs caught and have held the imagination of us all because they seem like dragons.
The scale of the disaster defied imagination (= was greater than you could imagine).
His imaginatton conjured up a vision of the normal family Iife he had never had.
Ppeaple’s imagination in thelyour~ Nobody hates you—it's all in your imagination! withiwithout ~ He was totally without imagination.
The figure vanished as silently as if it ‘had simply been a figment of her imagination.
Is if only my imagination or have you lost weight? ‘with a little imagination With a little imagination you can create a delicious meal from yesterday’s leftovers.
She could just tmagine her mother's look of horror.
Ialuays imagined him following in his father's footsteps.
There’s mare at stake here than you can possibly imagine.
Let us imazine what really ‘might have happened.
Had really heard a noise, or was Ljust imagining things?real or Imagined He was always keen to avenge insults, real or Imagined.
Increased recruitment of women engineers will help correct the gender imbalance in the profession.
Animbalancein certain chemicals leads 0 disturbances in the brair’s function.
Their version of jazz funk is a pale imitation of the real thing.
Children are seen as learning to write by direct imitation of adult models.
Fie does a very good imitation of George W Bush.
These facts are immaterial to the problem.
Immediacy Television allows viewers to experience an event without any loss of immediac.
Clare and Phil were deeply immersed in conversation.
For six months I totally immersed myself in my work.
Irish, Italian, Jowish, etc.
Britain is their home.
European immigrants settled muchof Australia.
She was the daughter of Chinese immigrants to America.
There was a sudden increase in immigration from Eastern Europe.
Heathrow and went through customs and immigration.
She seemed scarcely to breathe as she lay immobile.
For a moment shock held her immobile.
The accident Iefthim totally immaobile.
Fe condemned the govern- ‘ment's action as immoral.
Iy, voguely That sounds vaguely immoral.
The wild cocoa tree iseffectively immortal.
Some religions include a doctrine of per sonalimmortality.
It was in the power of the gods to confer immortality upon mortals.
They believe in the immortality of the soul.
The vaccination doesn’t necessarily make you completely immune.
Many people are immune to this disease.
Children are far from immune (0 the virus of cruelty that is latent in all human beings.
She's quite immune (o criticism.
The island’s inhabitants had no immunity to the diseases carried by the explorers and quickly succumbed.
Once you have had a cold you build up immunity to that particular virus.
High levels of stress may lower your immunity to common illnesses.
The newcomers lacked immunity against local strains of the disease.
Several ministers were stripped of parliamentary immunity as a prelude to facing corruption charges.
The newspaper claimed public interest immunity when threatened with prosecution for publishing the story (= claimed that the public had a right to know about the story).
The Supreme Court lifted the company’s im- ‘munity from criminal prosecution.
Unions were granted immunity from prosecution for non-violent acts.
Children have been routinely immunized against polio since 1958, with They immunized some mice witha dose of the live vaccine.
The industrial north of the country felt the full impact of the recession.
We'll show you hotw to dress for maximum impact at the all-important audition.
The railuways made a direct physical impact on the landscape.
It is important to appreciate the wider impact and implications of this proposal.
The severest human impact on the dolphins has been the loss of habilat.
The personal impact of party leaders has been very important.
The environmental impact of power generation s being assessed.
Variations in the interest rate will have an impact on the whole housing market.
The initial impact of the reforms will be Jelt most keenly in primary schools.
It is difficult (o judge the likely impact of the changes on employment patterns.
When peacereturned, the hardline message lost much of its impact.
This section explores how mothers resist the impact of poverty on the heaith of their children.
Architecturally, these churches reflected the impact of the Renaissance.
Manufacturing fell sharply under the impact of the recession.
Thefront coach of the train took the full impact of the crash.
Air bags are designed to soften the impact for crash victims.
Impact occurred seconds after the pilot signalledfor help.
The impact knocked him off balance.
Small meteorites haveleftimpact craters all over the planet's surface.
Thefrontof thecar had crumpled on impact.
Her sight is badly impaired.
The judge must remain impartial.
The BBC must ensure that due impartiality is preserved in its news programmes.
The river's broad mudfiats were thought completely impassable.
The mud made the roads impassable.
Negotiations seemed fo have reached an Impasse.
Her expression was cool, almost impassive.
He was trying hard not to show his impatience.
With~ He stamped his feet as he waited with bareIy concealed impatience for the telephone.
He expressed impatienceat the slow rate of progress.
He shook his head in a gesture of impatience.
He bit back a sigh of impatience.
The children were beginning toshow signs of impatience.
Thechildren were growing impatient.
She's getting impatientabout thedelays.
Sean was a touch impatient at the time Valerie devoted to ‘her mother for impatient for change with Sometimes he is very impatient with his wife.
The bad weather seriously impeded our progress.
There are no legal impediments to their ap- ‘pealing againstthe decision.
Theagreement i designed to remove impediments to trade between the two countries.
Their boycottof the talksconstitutes a serious impediment to peace negotiations.
They found the jungle virtually impenetrable.
The language of this document would be impenetrable to anyoneexcepta specialist.
It remains im perative that all sides should be involved in the talks.
The collapse of the wall made it imperative to keep the water out by some other means.
We consider it absolutely imperative to start work immediately.
His head moved in an almost imperceptiblenod.
The slight change in the taste was imperceptibleto most people.
Our understanding of cancer remains imperfuct.
The system is highly imperfect.
These goods areslightly imperfect.
Careful inspection in daylight revealed imperfections in the paintzoork.
American, British, Roman, Western, etc.
Ifind the atmosphere there rather impersonal.
His voicewas coolly impersonal.
She had the impertin.
Shefound the question highly impertinent.
He was comDpletely impervious to criticism.
Shewas impervious to his charms.
Fach new rumour added fresh impetus (o the smear campaign.
Hisdisappointment in the World Championships provided the necessary impetus to give everything for this final race.
The slope added impetus t his speed.
The movement is steadily gaining impetus.
With the death of its founder; the campaign lost much of its impetus.
Much of the impetus for change came from customers’ opinions.
The main impetus behind the ‘movewest was to find gold and other minerals.
These results might be considered implausible.
This idea is totally implousible.
He gave a series of increasingly implausible excuses.
Make sure that all sharp implements, such as scythes, have covers.
These policies havenever beenfully implemented.
The proposed_ changes were never actually implemented.
These reforms have now been widely implemented inschools.
The government falled to tmplement the plan.
The decision will be difficult to implement.
We will consult widely to ensure smooth implementation.
The practical implementation of the regulations proved difficult.
To achieve implementation of the programme is a lon, slow task.
The UN is 0 supervise the implementation of the peace treaty.
These groups are very strongly implicated in the violence.
Now they realized the full implications of the new system.
These results have important practicel plications.
The emphasis on testing leads to greater stress among students and carries implications of failure.
You need (o consider the legal implications before you publisi anything.
Several interesting implications arise from these developments.
Given the resource implications involved, the plan will haveto be scaled down.
The research has far-reaching implications for medicine as a whole.
The implication is clear: young females do better if they mate with a new male.
Hisremark seemetto have various possible implicotions.
Brian paused for a moment while he digested the implications of this statement.
This does ot necessarily imply that children achieve beiter results in private schools.
In no way They believe that submission in noway implies inferiority.
The letter seems to imply that the minister knew about the business deals.
This statement should not be taken to imply that the government s exonerated of all blame.
The value of annual imports rose rapidly.
The govern- ‘ment decided to prohibit the import of toxic waste.
Most of their oil revenues are used to finance imPportsof consumer and capital goods.
The industryaims both to increase exports and replace imports.
Imports were valued at £516 million last month.
Imports of foodstuffs accounted for a small proportion of total imports.
America has cut its oll imports from the Middle East by 73%.
Special duties were imposed on imports into the republic.
The store's croissants are imported directly Jfrom France.
These dogs are illegally imported into the country.
This information is of the first importance.
It is of the utmost importance that you arrive on time.
These finds haveconsiderable _archaeological importance.
The overseas markets have now declined in importance.
People were aware of the importance of working with nature.
The manual stresses the importance of regular maintenance.
Ish, downplay, minimize, play down, underplay Ske was inclined toplaydown the importance of her ownrole in the affair.
Don't underestimate the importance of neat presencation.
No one can seriously question the political Importance of the environment.
The town’s importance lies in the richness and quality of its architecture.
The railuways were of crucial importance in apening up the American West.
In order of importance Deal with the issues in order of importance.
These ideas areconsidered enormously important.
These tw factors are equally important.
If’s important for you to understand this.
Spending time with my children is important to me.
The terms of thecontract were effectiveIy impased rather than agreed.
New technology impotent cannot be used successfully if it is simply imposed on an anuilling workforce.
Motivation to learn must come from the child; it cannot be artificially impased.
The government has imposed a ban on thesaleof handguns.
Several reasons were put forward to justify the imposition of censorship.
She fel the journey to be an unwelcome im- ‘pasition on her time.
Darkness made it impassible 1o continue.
Cooking for forty would be frankly impossible without my new assistant.
Both options are equally impossible.
With the new equipment we will be able 10 accomplish hitherto impossibletasks.
The high cast of childcare made returning towork economicolly impassible.
The situation is quite impossible for us.
Its impassiblefor me tosay.
Violence may result from a sense of impotence.
Companies are rendered impotent by all the rules andregulations.
They were virtually impotent against the ‘pouwer of the large companies.
The operation lgft him impotent.
The damage it would cause makes the idea utterly impracticable.
This idea was considered completely impracticable.
Sucha solution proved impractical.
The weight of the machine makes lifting itimpractical.
They found his ldeas impractical.
The long flowing dress was highly impractical.
He was hopelessly impractical when it came to planning new projects.
Breach of the peace’ is a notoriously imprecise notion.
She was rather imprecise about the cost of thetrip.
Hiswork really impressed me.
The results failed to tmoress us.
She impressed us with both the depth and rangeaf her knowledge.
The prince was impressed enough to commission a portrait from the artist.
He mentioned a few famous acquaintances, and we were sultably impressed.
The manager was favourably impressed by Jo's work.
He was very tmpressed with her house.
The village gives a good impression of what a medieval city would have looked like.
First impressions can be misleading.
There is a widespread impression that schooling needs to beimproved.
The book leaves you with a distorted impression of politics.
She was trying to maintain the impression that she was in control.
It was difficult to avoid the impression thathe was assisting them for selfish reasons.
She recorded her impressions of the city inherdiary.
When itcomes tofindinga partner, first impressions docount.
If you want to create the right impression, I suggest you wear a suit.
The new striker failed to make an immediate impression on the team.
The day’s events left a lasting impression on them.
He does some very good impressions of popstars.
The sealing wax bore the impression of a saling ship.
He s ina highly impressionable state.
The fact that he is so young makes his achicvements even more impressite.
The new building looks most impressive.
The scenery to the north of the lake is equally impressive.
The film is technically tmpressive, butlacks real excitement.
Glaciation has lefta pérmanent imprint on the landscape.
Her fear virtually imprisoned her in her home.
He was imprisoned for debt.
In He was imprisoned ina local castle.
The Act states that anyone committing the offence is liable to imprisonment.
The coup leaders could face life imprison- ‘ment.
Those who were captured suffered imprisonment.
The juge sentenced her to 6 months imprisonment suspended for 15months.
The affence carries a penalty of 2years' imprisonment.
Imprisonment a felony punishable by imprisonment improbable adj.
These new facts make the theory improbable.
There is nothing inherently improbable in the idea.
She thought it quite improper for a woman to ride a motorbike.
Severol employees ‘were suspended amid allegations that financial improprieties had been committed.
Partiament was ‘wasaccused of constitutional impropriety.
The weather should continue to improve over the weekend.
Improve sth Workersneed to be glven an incentive to improve their performance.
We now affer a much improved service to our customers.
Their policies have resulted in a definite underlying improvemen in the economy.
The clubuwillspend £3000000n ground improvements.
The country's economic record since 1945 represents an improvement on the period between the world wars.
Exports have showed some improvement.
He made a steady improvement and was released within 10 days of admission.
The drug produced an improvement in all but one case.
With this exercise ‘plan you will notice an enormous improvement in your stamina.
No improvement was found after the tenth dayaf treatment.
The proposed road improvement scheme involves bypassing severat villages.
The improvement work to houses willcreate fobs.
The new factory brought a huge improvement in working conditions.
These results area distinct improvement on last year's.
Several improvements were made to the design during its production run.
Improvement The new assessment system could pinpoint areas for improvement within the compans.
Their average marks have risen, but there is still room for improvement.
The economy is showing signs of improvement.
Most of their music was spontaneousimprovisation.
There isn't much equipment.
We're going to have to improvise.
My first impulse was to run away.
We are all subject to aggressive impulses.
He Jought down an impulse to scream.
In to, obey, yield to She gave in to an impulse and took the money.
Acting on impulse, he picked up the keys and slipped them into his pocket.
Some people will buy a puppy on impulse without any idea of what is involved.
Impulses that are repeatedly denied can arise inather forms.
The little black designer dress had been an impulse buy.
On an impulse, I went into the shop and ‘boughta box of chacolates.
Nerve impulses are trans- ‘mittedtothe brain.
Radio wavesareconverted into electrical impulses.
He has to overcome his inability (o assert himself.
The mouth of the river proved inaccessible.
Ahighwall made the building inaccessible.
The hall is inaccessible to wheelchair users.
Reference works on thot country, when available, are full of inaccuracles.
Jfactual inaccuracies contained in your article of June 3rd.
In inaccuracies in reporting inaccurate adj.
These figures are somewhat inaccurate.
Maps of the region are notorlously inaccurate.
Itwasgood drama, but historically inaccurate.
He had been totally inactive for two weeks.
Her most brilliant work was done during several months of relative inactivity.
It was good to be home again after the enforcedinactivity of the hospital bed.
The job entailed long pertodsaf inactivity.
She rightly poinis to the inadequacy of the argument.
The test soon revealed several inadequacies in the equipment.
They possibly Jalsified the results to cover up the inadequacies of their theary.
Clear legislative reform is needed to avercome the inadequacies of the current stuation.
These precautions have been Judged inadequate.
His wages were pitifully Inadequate for the needs of his growing family.
Peopl, despite their intelligence, are curiously inadequate at communicating with horses.
This computer is clearly inadequate for my needs.
She was inadequate (o the demands that were ‘madean her: inadvisable adj.
Her condition ‘made surgery inadvisable.
It was thought highly inadvisable for young women to go there alane.
The size of the machines makes them inappropriate for domestic use.
This treatment was singularly inappropriate in her case.
Your bright red coat would be quite inappropriate for a juneral.
The existing library is totally inappropriate 0 our needs.
Hewas dismissed for inattention to his duty.
Inattention One moment of inattention when driving could befotal.
His voice wasalmost inaudible.
Thesound is inaudible 1o the human ear.
Theassembly was formallyin- ‘augurated on December 13.
The wine had made him incapable of thinking clearly.
He was apparently Dhysically incapable of lowering his voice.
This typeof arrangement remains valid even if you become mentally incapable.
Computers are incapable of creative thought.
By this time my father was fotally incapacitated by his illness.
In its new incarnation, the car has a more rounded bodyshape.
The most direct financlal incentive to prevent rubbish s to charge ‘people by the amount of rubbish they put out.
He argues that the free supplyof skilled labour will act s an incentive for employeesto bemare diligent.
The government has created tax incentives 10 encourage investment.
High taxation rates have undermined work incentives.
The company operates a share incentive scheme for its workers.
The absence of penalties for anticompetitive behaviour means that firms ‘have every incentive to engage in price fixing.
Low levels of profitability mean there is a lack of incentive to undertake new investment.
There is a greater incidence of cancer in the families of radiation workers.
The country had the lowest incidence of Aids cases proportional to lts population.
The medical histories of our patients show a high incidence of past diseases.
They found an increased incidence of chiidhood lewkaemia in same areas.
The lack of vitamins may explain the higher incidence of heart disease.
The report analyses the incidence of cancer among peaple aged 0-24.
The study notedan increased incidence of heart disease in women.
After nearly fulling twice, she managed to make it to the top of the clif without further incident.
He came to regret the whale incident.
The police said that two men had been arrested ajter thematch in unrelated incidents.
Isolated Itis feared that the attack may not have been an isolaled incident.
Talks ‘betueen the nelghbauring countries were called off following a border incident.
An error in the translation nearly caused a diplomatic incident.
She received a serfous jaw injury inan off the-ball incident.
The group Is believed to have been responsible for several terrorist Incidents.
Invalved in The hot-headed tennis star became involved in an incident with the umpire.
The incident was extremely well ‘handled.
She described the incident as outrageous.
They all laughed as he recounted the amusing incident.
The pedestrian who had nearly been run over reported the incident to the police.
The demonstration passed withoutincident.
The incident sparkedoff ariot which lasted three days.
An incident room was set up ata policestation near thesiteof thecrash.
Heuwas asked to leave the club Jfollowingan incidentat a training camp.
Three Soldiers were wounded in the incident.
She ‘was never disciplined over the incident.
The patrol had covered 200 miles without incident.
The fact that the concert made a profit was considered incidental.
The surgeon made a smallincision in the patient's cornea.
Hopes of advancement in the company may curb any inclination to deviate from the requirements of superiors.
In matters of dress she followed her personal inclinationsrather than fashion.
He is a teacher by occupation but a philosopher by inclination.
She has no inclination towards mysticism.
Luke inclined his head slightly in acknowledgement.
The land inclined gently towards the share.
There's time for a swim if you feel so inclined.
I'm rather inclined to walt afewdays before deciding.
I'm half inclined 10 believe you.
She's rather inclined to become impatient.
The club ‘was a notorious hang-out or the criminally inclined.
What's thot? The*Model Railway Journal'? Ididn't know you were that way inclined (= interested in model railways).
We welcome readers’ letters for possible inclusion on this page.
Some words are (oo infrequent (0 be worthy of inclusion in the dictionars.
All work by current students s eligible for inclusion in the journal.
They tried to prevent the inclusion of any wording in thestatement that would causeoffence.
Therearestrict criteria Jor inclusion in the competition.
Thecharge is inclusive of food.
The price isall inclusive.
Average incomes are rising more slowb.
They ‘hope that the lottery will provide additional income for charities.
She received an income for life as a result of her father's will.
Financial assets have the advantage of earning income.
The return on your investment can provide you with regulor income.
Shesupplements her income by doing an evening job.
For 2001, expenditure exceeded income by £10000.
Interest is treated as income for tax purposes.
Ifa person’s income arises in the UK Itis subJect to UK income tax.
Many families on a low income are deDpendent on state suppor.
Everycompany must keep control of its income and expenditure.
Real income per head of population was atalow point five years ago.
The disastrous merger demonstrated the incompatibility of the two companies.
Incompatibility between systems has ‘been a major problem for video users.
Critics of the ‘new machine point to its incompatibility with other products on themarket.
Scepticism and trust are not necessarily incompatible.
Te two systems are mutually incompatible.
He displayed his incompetence by turning ina report that was full of errors.
Severalofficers had alleged incompetence on the partof the general.
Tknowmy boss considers me incompetent.
Heis utterly incompetentat his job.
Her collection remained incomDlete.
The building was left incomplete.
She found his accentvirtually incomprehensible.
Latin verse remained completely incomprehensibleto me.
She Jfound the dea quite inconceivable.
Ifound the scene somewhat incongruous.
Researchers have found that internal inconsistencies in hospital case notes are common.
The script is filled with logical inconsistencies.
The lack of a clear set of competition rules resulted in inconsistency in the awarding of prizes.
The program has found an inconsistency in the database files.
She was quick to spot the inconsistencies between his two reports.
Commentators ‘have pointed out the inconsistencies in the government's financial policy.
Theamendment will remove the inconsistency between the two laws.
Inconsistencies bezan to creep into his testimony.
In inconsistencies in the evidence inconsistent adj.
Her argument is internally inconsistent.
The rail strike is likely to cause considerable public inconvenience.
This shop is closed today for staff training.
The club management will try to ensure that the building work is carried out with the minimum of inconvenience to guests.
The general public has been greatly inconvenienced by this strike.
She called at a most inconvenient time.
Further environmentallegislation could bepolitically inconvenient for the government.
Trese conditions must be expressly incorporated into the contract of ‘employment.
Thesenew featurescan easily be incorporated.
In 1940 the area was incorporated as part of the city of London.
The data s now incorporated in the total figures.
Results are incorporated within personalizedmedicalrecords.
That statement is simply incorrect.
Tre pay rise represenied an across-the-board increase of ‘between 9% for the highest paid and 32% for the lowest paid worker.
Many parts of the country have experienced an increase in unemployment.
This year saw an increase in the number of Job applicants.
Profits show a steady increase.
The country is enjoying the biggest increase in business confidence for years.
We achieved a small increase in profits of £3 257.
Intensive farming has brought about an increase in outbreaks of food poisoning.
The war resulted in a massive increase in government spending.
The measures to improve the health service witl involve an increase in government spending.
Burglaries in the area are on the increase.
In There has been an increase in demand for two-bedroom flats.
Sales increased almost fourfold in this period.
De- ‘mand is expected to increase over the next decade.
The budget has increased by more than a third in the last year: from, in to increase in amount/number/price/size to Last month the reward was increased from £20 00010 £40 000.
Disability increases with age.
It seems incredible to me that we didn't think of this before.
You're pretty incredible, Belinda.
The company is heavily indebted.
Noteat CRIME (for verbs) indecent adj.
That skirt of hers s positively indecent.
The rush to get hold of their father's ‘money seemed positively indecent.
She started a new relationship with almost indecent haste.
The council's relative independence of the govern: ‘ment means it can negotiate its own agreements.
Young people have more independence these days.
She displayed independence of judgement in choosing a career quitedifferent from that of her parents.
Edward ITT tried to assert his independence of the regime at court.
Mexico achieved independencefrom Spain in 1821.
The army is committed to ensuring the independence of the countrs.
She doesn't want to lose her hard-won independence.
Parents should encourage independence in their children.
Econamic aid tends to undermine the national independence of third world countries.
They have agreed (o recognize the breakaway republic's independence.
Independence came to the British colonial territories in Africa in the late fifties and earlysixties.
Namibia became a full member of the UN at independence.
Independence The car became a symbol of independence.
American War of Independence dependent adj.
Travelling in Asia has made her a lot more independent.
Many disabled people are Sfiercely independent.
By the age of eighteen he was completely independent of his parents.
In 1961 the country was declared independen.
The couniry has pursued an effectlvely independent line on military issues.
The country became fully independent from France in 1960.
Their shellsare so ‘hard theyarevirtually indestructible.
In, be in Although the book indication was devoted to cancer, the word ‘cancer” did not even appear in the index.
The index only gives themain towns.
It's a general index to the whole work.
Look up‘The Waste Land in the index.
Search the index to find the address of the data file.
The world index fell 3.
Dow Jones, FT-SE 100, etc.
Thosewholived in the inner cities hadahigh index of deprivatian.
The estresults were used as an index of language proficiency.
The retail price index is published monthly.
The increase in our standard rates will be linked to the retail priceindex.
The hundred shares index closed down 15points.
Inflation, as measured by theretail price index, is expected to drop.
Expense does ot necessarily indicate worth.
These facts ‘would seem to indicate that the family was wealthy.
Symbols are used to indicate the facilities available ateach hotel.
These figures indicate to me tha the company isin serioustrouble.
Rising interest rates were an outward indication of the change in government attitude to economic controls.
Some car alarms have no visualindication that they are in operation.
The ‘popularity of the government bullding project servedasan indication of publicsupport.
His early successes gave some Indication of his ability.
The researchers say they can find no indication that television has harmful physical effects on children.
Thecomments made by management may be taken asan indication of how they Jfeltabout their workers.
Amid indications of growing disorder in the copital, the president is to make a speech on television tonight.
Indications are that .
All the indications are that she will make a full recovery.
There's every indication that the ‘operation has been a success.
The rise in unemployment is seenas indicative of a new economicrecession.
Recurrent dreams are ‘not necessarily indicative of psychological problems.
Level of education is actually quite a poor indicator of ability to run a business well.
These warts can serve as an indicator of other infections.
Gold prices areaften seen asan indicator of inflation.
It is still difficult to develop indicators for many conceptsused n social science.
Economic indicators suggest that a recoveryis on the way.
Her speech was a scathing indictment of the government's recordon crime.
Two men werenamed in the indictment.
They issued an indictment against them.
She was convicted on an indictment for conspiracy.
She showed total indifference to his fate.
He feigned indifference to criticism of his work.
The more recent members of staff regard the change in corporate culture with.
Con408 stable's landscapes met with indifference when they were first exhibited.
The president is restgned fopublic indifference to his latest initiative.
Ellis spoke with a casual indifference that he did not feel.
She adopted an attitude of supreme indifference.
Indifference I¢samatter of indifferenceto me whether he goes or not.
Pat sounded almost indifferent.
Most staff were indiffferent about the plans.
He was coldly indifferent to other people.
The festival has the usual mixof films—good, bad and indifferent.
Thetreeis indigenous to China.
Rich food aluways gives me indigestion.
Special pageat ILLNESS indignant ad.
She became rather indignant over suggestions that she had lied.
His response was oneof high indignation.
They were full of righteous indignation ot the thought of being cheated.
Bertha's voice quivered with indignation.
Indignation grewas ‘more nightclubs opened.
She could feel her indignation rising.
In~ She turned to him in indignation.
He refused it with some indignation.
The government expressed its indignation over the way the incident had been handled.
He had committed a minor sexual indiscretion.
He had never forgiven her for reporting his indiscretlon in frontaf his friends.
Written sources areconsidered virtually indispensable for today's history teaching.
These drugs are almast indispensable in the fight against the disease.
He was carrying out his functions asa trustee in the course of his business, rather than as a privateindividucl.
His philosaphy isabout becoming awareaf oneself as an autonomous individual.
Society does not consist of isolated individuals, but people in network of relationships.
She saw the artist as a unique individual, possessing a ~heightened awareness of reality.
We welcome applications from suitably qualified individuals.
We knaw that all human individuals are unique.
The teacher should treat each pupilasan individual.
Although individuals vary widels, the bones of the average female skeleton are smallerand lighter than themate.
His writings are concerned with religious phenomena at the individual level.
No single individual ‘had done somuch for the development of the motor vehicle.
Individual the issue of the freedom of the individual versus the intervention of the state a group of Individuals She had taken a group of individuals and made them into a superb team.
It's up to the individual concerned to contact the police.
Each course has to be tailored to the needs of the individual.
Eating habits are bound ta vary from individualto individual.
Each song has its own individualits.
The small items of handcrafted furniture give individuality to the room.
This book will help you recognize your individuality.
Becoming part of a team should notmean the suppression of individuality.
The higher payments were offered as an inducement.
The reduced tax is a major inducement for firsttime buyers.
In She was free to indulge in a littleromanticdaydreaming.
As a relie/ from work she allowed herself afew small indulgences.
He begged the audience’s indulgence to read some passages from his latest boak.
He attacked the indulgence shown ta religious dissenters.
The union is considering stepping up its industrial action.
In, be/become involved in His research indicates an increase in the number of women involved in industrial action.
The union is threatening industrial action against the company.
The government decided to encourage industries based an biotechnology.
Running down thenuclear industry will result in heavy job losses.
They claim thata commercial port would damage the local tourist industry.
The state’s timber industry is heavily subsidized.
More thon 140000 people are directly involved in the industry.
In the fuvourable economic envirorment, new light industries are constantly springing up.
The tourist industry is still expanding ropidiy.
When the railuaydisap- ‘peared, other industries associated with it closed douwn.
They hope that thedisk drivewill become on industry stondord.
Inwithin ~ In the compuier industrs change comes about very ropidly.
The banks lend money to commerce and industry.
British film industry a sector of Industry, trade andindustry the Department of Trade and Industry edible adj.
These chemicals make the fruit inedible.
Thefood was totally inedible.
These policies have proved ineffective.
Te controct was rendered ineffective by this careless wording.
Conflict between management and workers makes for inefficiency in the workplace.
We eed to root out ingffciencies i the production process.
This type of inefficiency arises because workers ond menagement are ill-equipped.
The country had been declored ineligible for World Bank lending.
The new rules have made thousands more people ineligible for legal aid.
It would be politically inept to cut these training pro- ‘grammes now.
He wasrather inept at word games.
Inequalities of income would lead to even greater inequalities in_access to health care.
The introduction of school fees would create inequality between schools.
Many sociologists have regorded education as central in perpetuating inequality.
Sex inequality in pay reinforces class inequality.
The country has hod some success inredressing racial inequalitizs.
Even in the age of compulsory school, inequalities ‘haveremained.
She lay completely inert on her bed.
The forces for change in the government are not sufficient to overcome bureaucratic inertio.
He stayed where he wos, not because he really wanted to, but out of inertia.
Projects were requently abandoned through sheer inertia.
She learning to occept the inevitability of death.
The scondal made her resignation inevitable.
She bowed to the inevitable (= accepted a situation in which she had no choice) and resigned.
Her energy seemed inexhaustible.
Paper is elatively inexpensive here.
She showed her inexperience by asking lots of trivial questions.
The team’s defensive errors were down to (= a result of their) inexperience.
He put his mis takes down to (= believed they were caused by his) inexperience.
Her inexperience in politics did not show as she debated with the other condidates.
They made mistakes through inexperience.
She was still a relatively inexperienced pilot.
She was inexperienced in teaching art.
Their actions are completely inexplicable.
Thevaccination is given in carly infancy.
Their first child didnot surviveinfancy.
She died in infancy.
Deaths during infancy have fallen dramatically in the last hundred years.
The nnew company is still in its infancy.
Since her infancy she has been a healthy baby.
He was ill many times throughout his infancy.
He is studying hearing in very young inJants.
Marjorie looked down at the sleeping infant in her arms.
Over 30% of all new infections occur in the developing world.
He's suffering froman acute infection of the lower respiratory tract.
She's always getting chest infections.
The infection is passed on through the horse feed.
Almost all the sheep on the form carried the infection.
The virus offects the body's immune system so that it connot fight infection.
Kll Normaly, white blood cells fight off and kill infections.
They want t prevent the infection spreading to other parts of the body.
Heavy tung infections may result in preumonic.
In~In acute infections of theurinary tract the patient may suffer severe pain.
The drug must be taken from the onset of the infection.
The urethra was the primary site of infection a source of Infection I¥eare (rying t trace the source of infection.
From this study we can reasonably infer that this behaviour is inhertted.
In the absence of detailed documentary evidence, we can only make inferences about Minoan religion.
The vatue of data depends on our skill in drawing inferencesfrom it.
She considered everyone her intellectualinferior.
These later pointings are slightly inferior in value.
His later work was vastty inferior to his early work.
The invading force, conscious of their numerical inferiority ot sea, decided on an airborne attack.
He had an inferiority complex about his looks.
She accepted her inferlority to her rivals.
Using a false accent over the phone isasign of inferiority.
Zhe building was heavily infested with cockroaches.
The police tried to prevent infiltration by drug trafickers.
Modal verbs generally take the bare infinitive.
The use of the split infinitive is nowgenerally acceptable.
Intoto Thearetically, a line can extend into infinity.
Parallel lines meet at infinity.
In this weather the cliff face was a foggy drop into infinity.
Asxapproaches infinity y approaches zero.
The usual convention is to choose the reference point at infinity.
Her joints are severely inflamed.
These gases are highly inflammable.
Steroids often help reducethe inflammation and itching in the skin.
The balloon was kept fully inflated with ‘hydrogen.
The prices of meals are often artificially inflated.
It s vital that inflation s kept in check.
Wages are not keeping pace with inflation.
Inflation is down oits lowest level in three years.
Inflation reached a manthly rateof 5%.
Inflation has slowed to 7%.
Increase/a ise in Inflation ar increase in Inflation 0 3.
The rules seemed arbitrary and inflexibie.
The seven-year period is not totally inflexible.
She's a good teacher, but shecan berather inflexible.
Wrien someone deliberately inflicts damage, it is a matter for the police.
He was charged with maliciously inflictinggrievous bodily harm.
They inflicted a humiliating defeat on their rivals.
The court found that the bank exerted undue influence over Mrs Black in getting her tosign thecontract.
Her wealth gave her influence over affairs of state.
Drug cartels wielded enormous inSusence in the city.
The unions have been abe to extend their influence ver all industries.
The court was told that he was under the influence of alcohol when he committed the offence.
She came under the influence of Sartre at this period.
Spanish architecture shows Moorish influence.
Much of his writing can be attributed tothe influence of Freud.
Their influence extended asfaras China.
The town grew under the influence of colonialism.
There was noinfluence from outside.
She has a certain amount of influence in the way things are organized.
They were a major influence upon the development of the sport.
Queen Isabella was ‘urged to use her influence with the French monarch.
Rome's sphere of influence extended across Europe, North Africa and the Middle East.
The king tried 10 bring his influence to bear on (= tried to influence) the parliament.
He was arrested for driving under the influence.
The massive intellect of his mother had been a formative influence from his earliest years.
He is a writer of Indian descent and draws upon diverse cultural influences.
The legacy of Ancient Rome represented the overwhzlming influence on Romanesque architecture.
The band had man influences.
She's by far the biggest influence on my writing.
This book inSfuenced ker profoundly.
Indirectly Pressure from industry bosses has directly influenced govern ment policy.
Try to be aware of external factars which may unduly influence your judgement.
He was naive ‘and eastly influenced by his friends.
Inmensely, particularly, realIy, very This was a highly influential work.
As a writer she was hugely influential.
InThegroup was influential in setting up the new schools.
The hotel husreceiveda large influx of guests.
The country sealed its ‘barders to prevent the influx of illegal immigrants.
They didn't know how they were going to cope with the sudden influx of refugees.
Zam not advising you.
Tam merely informing youof thesituation.
Next time you decide to take some action, kindly infarm me.
The clinic is required to inform the patient about possible alternative treatments.
We will immediately inform you of any changes (o the programme.
Our meetings are relatively Informal.
It is alleged that he gave fulse information to the tax autharities.
Further information is available on request.
There are legal constraints on the use of price-sensitive information.
She let slip a few nuggets of information about herself.
This book isa mine of Information an the Romans.
James is able to retain an enormous amount of factual information in his head.
The police are still questioning witnesses and gathering information.
Portable com- ‘Duters are good for accessing information while trovelling.
Someone leaked information fo the press.
They passed on the information about the crime to the police.
The French and British police will exchange information on wanted criminals.
It was improper of the broker to withhold the Information from the stock exchange.
The way you present the information ts important.
At the moment we've ver little information to go on.
According to information received by the police, the terrorists have left the country.
This leaflet Is produced for the information of our customers.
The survey proved most informative.
The book is extremely informative about Iifein Roman times.
Iwas at their age.
Consumers must e fully informed of the services available.
They were poorly informed about their rights.
Wewill keep you informed of any developments.
Keepme informed on progress.
One of the gang ‘members had turned informer.
Disturbances are relatively infrequent in British prisons.
The committee ruled that the US ban constituted an infringement of free trade.
Getting out of this mess was going torequireafair degreeof ingenuity.
There is always a solution, 5o long as you are prepared {0 use your ingeniity.
The children showed a lot of ingenuity.
Considerable ingenuity is needed to minimize costs.
It didn't take much ingenuity to transform the door into table.
They adapted the avatlable materials with great ingenuity.
We have to admire his ingenuity in redesigning themachinery.
Prejudice remains deeply ingrained in 'many organizations.
It always pays to use the best ingredientswhen cooking.
Add all the remaining ingredients and bring to the boil.
Use a spoon to mix the dry ingredients.
Mix the marinade ingredients and pour over the goose.
Blend all the ingredients together ina boul.
Allfood products should carryalist of ingredients on the packet.
Hard work is a vital ingredient for success.
Forecasting Is a basic ingredient of business planning.
The little town has all the right ingredients for a murder mysters.
The Australian team had the added ingredient of perseverance.
She hopes the change of career will supply the missing in gredient in her life—excitement.
Tolerance is an essential ingredient for happy marriage.
Individualism has been the secret ingredient in developing his chain of fashion stores.
He is Brixham's oldest inhabitent.
The island’s earliest inhabltants came from India.
London has over seven ‘million inhabitants.
Janet inhaled sharply when she saw him.
He stood to inherit (= was likely to inherit) property worth £5million.
He accused his younger brother of trying to steal his rightful inheritance.
She left him an inferitance of £100000.
When he was 21 he came into a large inheritance.
When his fother died, he returned to England to claim his inheritance.
Jealous relatives tried to challenge her inherttance.
The Ecrl of Arundel's heir was restored 10 his inheritance and granted the lordship of Chirk.
The inheritance was divided equally among ail the sons.
Under thelr law, all children shared intheinheritance.
Thesystem involved inheritance by theeldest son.
The fear of dismissal inhibited employees fromraising problems.
He was rather inhibited about discussing politics.
She felt very inhibited by her own lack of experience.
The children, ot first shy, soon lost their inhibitions.
Young children will participate in a initiative drama class without inhibition.
We regard their treatment of the prisoners as inhuman.
The two authors have the some initials.
She’s always been known by her initials.
Hecarved his girlfriend’s initials in therock.
Now that she was managing director she could put the initials MDafter her name.
When writing, if you use initials for a long ‘name, make sure you spell.
The enquiry was formally initiated last month.
It was my initiation into the world of high Jfashion.
The research Initiative is being undertaken by a group of environmentalists.
The government hos launched a new policy intiative.
Ten schools have been involved in the initiative.
The peace initiative was rejected out of hand.
We welcome the government's initiativeto help the homeless.
The initiative foundered because there was no market interest in redevelopment.
It is a very hierarchical company and there's little place for individualinitiative.
He had the initiative to ask what time the last train loft.
He acted on his own initiative and wasn't following orders.
Don't ask me what you should do all the time.
Raising taxes on small businesses will stifleinitiative.
Some scientists show little initiative in applying their knowledge.
After their latest setback, the rebe forces no longer hold the initiative.
In the second half Manchester United regained the initiative.
Theinitiative to re-open negotiations came from Moscouw.
She took the Initiative in asking the board to conduct an enquiry.
In some US states execution is by lethal injection.
He had to have a tetanus inJection after injuring himself with a shovel.
They gave her an injection to stop the pain.
The rats received a daily injection of the drug.
The best treatment is antibiotics, preferably by injectlon.
Both groups recelved a second injection with the same solution.
An undisclosed buser will provide a much-needed cash injection for the fragile balance sheet.
Injaction of = capitalicash/money/resaurcas The company had reached the ize where t needed.
She 0k out an Injunction to prevent the press publishing the information.
It was agreed that the temporary injunction should be lifted.
The court upheld an injunction barring protesters from blocking access to the company.
They got an interim injunction against the union.
The rank and file ‘members will follow the injunction of the party leadership.
This incident could seriously injure the company's reputation.
He could have been lying injured on the moorsafter a fall from his horse.
Several people were seriously inJured.
Researchers have determined that heading a football can cause per manent injury.
He missed most of the season with a spate of injuries.
You'll do yourself an injury riding that old bike.
She picked up an injury during the quarter final.
The doctor said he would risk serious injury if he were to Joll again.
The car wrned right ‘over, causing severe injury 10 the driver.
She has replaced him in jury.
He was accused of feigning injury.
He aggravated a neck injury while playing for Derby County.
The inquest heard that he died from multiple injuries.
Stretching exercises can help ‘avoid injury.
Fortunately, the passengers escaped serious injury.
She has failed to shake off her stomach injurs.
Finger injuries should be dealt with immediatels.
Hels still being treated for injuries 1o is legs.
He went off (= off the playing field) with an injury in the second half.
She is out (= out of the ‘competition/team) or six weeks with a hamstring injury.
He pulled out with (= decided not to compete because of) an injury at the last moment.
She should be back from injury.
India had wicketkeeper More backafter injury.
ThIs typeof injury could happen toany player atany time.
Her athletics career has been dogged by injury.
Both defenders have been sidelined by injury.
The knee injury forced him (o give up playing at the ageaf 23.
They scored two goals in injury time (= time 3dded at the end of & game because the game has been interrupted by injured players needing treatment).
She’s unable to play because of injury: through~ He has pulled out of the match through inJury.
She slumped to the floor with injuries to her back and neck.
Insultto injury It adds insult to injury (= it make things worse) that banks are allowed 10 increase their charges without our knowledge or consent.
Injury (law) a claim for personal injurya risk of Injury There s areal risk of injury in sportssuch as climbing.
Hesuffered the injustice of being punished for a crime which he did not commit.
The trial was regarded as the greatest injustice of the postwar criminaljustice system.
She remains adamant that an injustice was done.
We may have been doing him an injustice (= criticizing him unfairly).
This work s good.
She was acclaimed for speaking out against injustice.
Ttwould ean injustice fothe man to imprison him for life.
Injustice of it all She was overwhelmed by the injustice of it all (= of the situation).
The ink is still wet.
Most people now use ballpoints rather than ink.
Hewrote very neatly in blue ink.
Allow the ink (o dry.
The drawback of this printer is that the in tends to smudge.
We need to replace the ink cartridge in the printer.
There were severalalterations in ink.
The first inkling we had of Cliff's problem was when he didn't come to work.
She ‘never gave us any inkling of what she was planning.
The inmates were ‘moved to an undisclosed location.
The prisoners passionately prociaimed their innocence in front of the Jurs.
She claimed total innocence of all charges.
Hayes has protested his innocence throughout the case.
She replid to her father's accusations in tones of injured innocence.
He had lost the innocence of childhood.
She had taken advantage of his innocence.
In his innocence he had allowed the salesman in to discuss vecuum cleaners.
He grinned with apparent innocence.
There is an innocenceabout the stors.
There was a touching air of innocence about the boy.
Innocence, the picture of Innacence ‘You cheated! ‘I what? asked ‘David, the picture of innocence (= pretending tolook innocent).
He pleaded innocent to the charges.
The accused person should always be prestumed in ‘nocent until proved guilty.
The courtfound her innocent of thecrime.
Lam totaily innocent of this rime.
Stop playing innocentand answer my questions, please.
The circumstance could be altogether innocent, but suspicions have been raised.
She was sixteen and sweetly innocent.
The liquid looked fairly innocuous.
Too stricta regulatory system witl stifle innovation.
She believed she ‘had come up with one of the greatest innovations of modern times.
Many innovations were introduced by the 1919 Act.
The report contains a substantial input by the police.
They all had same input in the discussion.
Theunion would ikemore inputon redundancies.
Early computers required input in the form of punched cards.
The saftware will accept input from a variety of other programs.
It may be beyond the capability of the hardware to process the input.
Decision tables can be used as computer input.
Check your input and ‘make sure you have selected only one item.
The cursor is positioned on the first input field of the page.
An elderly woman froze to death, an inguest heard yesterday.
An inquest found that the deceased had died of a drugs overdose.
The inguest returned verdict of accidental death.
Into an inquest into the team’s poor performance~onan inqueston three fishermen inquire, inquiry = See ENQUIRE, ENQUIRY inquisitive adj.
He later became insane and was confined to an asylum.
He went almost insane when he heard that his daughter had died.
You're driving me nearly insane with that naise.
In 1975 she was certified clinically insane and sentto amental hospital.
He is criminally insane, unabletostop himself attacking women.
It seems insane to cut the budget now.
The whole idea is quite insane.
At the murder frial, he pleaded insantty.
The volume had been personally inscribed by the author.
He sent me a number of ‘his books, all suitably inscribed.
On Her name was inscribed on the watch, with Thewatch was Inscribed with her name.
The monument carries the inscription: “To the fallen in two world wars.
The inscription bears the date 1655.
The simple inscription on her grave reads: “She sleeps in peace.
Unfortunately, pesticides kill off beneficial insects as well as harmJul anes.
Social insects, suchas ants, live in largecolonies.
An insect was buzzing around the room.
Insects had bored deep into thewood.
The wood should be treated against insect attack.
Gardeners welcome birds as they control insect pests.
Wasps are the master builders of the insect world.
Hefelta bit insecure about being left alone.
Years of abuse at boarding school had made him insensitive to others’ suffering.
The machine is relatively insensitive to changes intheatmasphere.
The government has shown complete Insensitivity to the refugees.
The two brothers arealmost inseparable.
Religion is inseparable from politics.
The English translation s inserted between the lines of text.
Fine needles are gently inserted into the patient's skin.
The objective of the research Is to gain a better insight into labour market processes.
The research witl ‘provide direct insight into molecular mechanisms.
With a flash of insight, she found the solutionto the problem.
The experienced specialist has projessional skills and insight.
Teachers have to apply in the classroom the insights that they gain in educational courses.
Into, fade into Her achievements fade into insignificance beside those of her sisters.
He made her feel insignificant.
These results are statistically insignificont.
I'm only interested in the money.
I'm paying for this—no, I absolutely insist.
He quietly but firmly insisted.
She still insists her critics are wrong.
Employers are entitled to insist that employees honour the terms of their agreement.
The union has dropped its earlier insistence that workers should receive ‘bonus payments.
At the insistence of his father, he ‘bought himself a new suit.
She was most insistent that weshouldn’t leave the door unlocked.
She was insistent about inviting him.
Hewas insistent ona format written agreement.
He inspected the water tank carefully for cracks.
They have refused to allow international inspection of their nuclear facilities.
Fullowing an on-site inspection, the surveyor prepared a written reporton the property.
He knew that his motives would not bear too close an inspection (= that his motives were ot good).
The architect is carrying out a thorough inspection.
The hatel passed itsannual inspection.
Closer inspection of the vase revealed it to be a fuke.
He held out the saucepan for inspection.
The report seemed impressive at first, but on closer inspection there were severat inaccuracies.
The school inspectors were called in.
His wife was the direct inspiration for the main character in the book.
The movement draws much of its inspiration from the Greek philosophers.
Many of us found inspiration in her teaching.
Her latest book owes is inspiration tochild- ‘hood memories.
He peered into his glass, as {f seeking inspiration there.
Bcome (from sth) Oneday the inspiration justcame.
Her inspiration comes from Asia.
He was the inspiration behind last week's victory.
The sea has provided an inspiration for many of his paintings.
She's been a great inspiration ‘tome.
Seem Noneof the leaders seems very inspiring.
The increased inflation will inject a degreeof instability into the ecanomsy.
Greate Racism causes political instability and violence.
The law was introduced to avoid instability during the transition.
Instability may ariseat times of change.
Make sure the equipment is properly installed.
She saw her guests safely inStalled in their rooms and then went downstairs.
The loft ladder is easily installed.
The switches are cheap (o buyand easy to instatt.
Shesold the car before she had paid the instalments.
Thetenants agreed topay off thearrears in instalments.
The next instalment is not due until July.
The amounts are repayable by instalment.
Repayment isin ten instalments.
This is a classic instance of Dostoevsky's writing operatingon two levels.
North America provides the most striking instance of European settlement on agrand scale.
Expertscite the country asan instance where human righs violations could lead to international intervention.
An instance of this controversy occurred last year.
This instance shows how important it is to check that the machine is working properly before youuse it.
Murder,petty theft and tax evasion, for instance, all have different motives and consequences.
In one instance, several people had their mobile phones stolen.
It is not always helpful to draw ‘analogies between sexism and racism, but in this instance itisuseful.
In the first instance, a letter from your employer may be allyou reed.
For a brief instant, I thought she was going to fall.
He paused for an instant ‘before continuing.
Just for an instant I thought he was going 10 refuse.
It was all over in an instant.
She woke up in the instant before the phone rang.
At any given instant the distribution of molecular speeds is always constant under the same conditions.
He took out his keys to lock the door: At thatvery instant thedoor flew open and a man ran into the room.
The bomb could go off at any instant.
His response was almost instant.
Her death was almost instantaneous.
Against her better instincts, she ran back into the burning house to save some of her jewellery.
He had an unerring instinct for when people were lying to him.
Killer, predatory (often figurative) He ‘plays well but lacks that killer instinct that wins matches.
What makes all these people come to the club? In my view it the herd instinct.
They accused the campaign of appealing to the electorate’s baser instincs.
Both superpowers shared the same instinct for self preservation.
Her instinct told her that shewas being followed.
Artists have to learn to be guided by their instincts.
Tue trusted my instincts in the past and they've usually beenright.
Babies know by instinct who their mother is.
He's got an instinct Jfor survivalin a tough job.
My reaction was purely instinctive.
She belongs to the Chartered Institute of Management.
The environmental re- ‘search institute found that the global average temperature had risen by 1.
The Institute says that an unidentified virus is to blame for the syndrome.
She used to give lectures at the Mechanics' Institute.
He is a key figure in the Institute of Mathematics.
Parliament remains the central in stitution of the constitution of the United Kingdom.
They argue for the reform of existing political institutions.
Many people with dementia would rather remain at home than be placed inan institution.
Fish and chips becamea national institutionin Britain.
You were explicitly instructed to wait here.
You should always read the instructions on medicines thoroughly.
These fondant decorations are easy to master f you Jollow our simple step-by-step instructions.
He gave her detailed instructions on the procedure to be followed.
Microwave ovens should be serviced according 1o the manufacturer’s instructions.
The organizer will give instructions as to what to do.
Instructions to the letter Te Jjockey followed his trainer's instructions to the letter (= followed them in every detail).
She is acting under direct instructions from the president.
Failure to obey a policeman’s instructions may amount to an offence.
He remained under cover and waited further instructions from headquarters.
Solicitors may not accept instructions in cases where they would have a conflict of interests.
The government has issued specific instructions on reducing waste disposat.
The director sat in his chair barking instructions at the cast.
We acted according 1o the instructions we received.
She was released on tnstruction from the Foreign Ministry.
Under Chariemagne's instructions, many classical texts were recopled.
They were not empowered to negotiate without instructions.
The chip runs at speeds of up to 100MHz and executes two instructions per clock cycle.
She had 1o Sormal instruction in music.
The two-day course features instruction by leading professionals and academics.
He claimed that he was not capableof giving instruction in poetry.
The medium of in struction throughout the courses English.
The autopsy revealed that the deceased had been hit with a blunt instrument.
Even though it was @ somewhat biunt instrument (= not very precise), our questionnaire provided us with some interesting ideas.
All pupils should learn to usedrawing instruments.
Al the irstruments are made from glass capillary tubing.
The pilot did his instrument checks and taxied towards the runway.
There was a warning light flashing on the instrumentparel.
She plays three musical instruments.
The score was written to be played on a keyboard instrument.
Ensure the instrument is tuned to concert pitch.
The instrument sounds like a cello.
They agreed that the UN was the best instrument for reaching agreement.
Some cynics say that sport is a mere instrument of capitalist domination.
Thedespot claimed 10 be thechosen instrument of divine providence.
They saw criminat law as an instrument for improving public morals.
Criminal law is not the best instrument for deating with family matters.
She was accused of makingapublic service an instrument of private advaniage.
In They were highly instrumentat in bringing the business to Newtown.
The resources available are quite insuficient for thetask.
The laboratory was well insulated against all outside noise.
The hot water tank should be insulated with proper insulating materials.
The community was totally insulated from the outside world.
Whatever you do, don't call @ ‘railway enthusiast’ a trainspotier —it's the ultimate insult.
Giferary), shout, thraw They were hurling insults at the police.
Foreigners have to suffer constant insults from the local population.
The two groups of fans exchanged insults.
Insults were flying back and forth.
It was an insult to his wife.
Injury Only 300 people came to the match and t0 add insult to injury (= to make things worse), the floodlights went out during the second half an insult to your intelligence The questions were a real insult to our intelligence (= because they were too asy).
He was dismissed for publicly insulting prominent politicians.
Ifind it insulting to bespoken to in that way.
He made the question sound almost insulting.
Her tone was deliberately insulting.
His opinions are highly insuiting to women.
The company ‘maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers.
The contract requires me to arrange my own insurance.
The travel agent recommended that 1 take out travel insurance.
She set fire to her house and then claimed insurance.
We claimed for thecar repairs on theinsurance.
Does your personal accident insurance cover mountain rescue? ‘> Millions of peopie in the US are not covered by health insurance.
The insurance will pay for the damage.
He bought a new suit out of the insurance money.
More people are taking out insurance against the high cost of dental care.
The court heard that he stood to gain millions in insurance on his wife.
Her insurance is with General Accident.
Your video is not insured ogainst accidental damage.
Tiie age barrier appeared insurmountable.
They were now faced with seemingly insurmountable technical problems.
Years of discontent turned into armed in surrection.
There was a popular insurrection against the police.
The building survived almost intact.
We found the tomb perfctly intact.
The character of the original house is very much intact.
The mill machinery is stillintact.
You should ‘maintain a low intake of fat.
You need to watch your alcohol intake.
One of the best ‘ways toget toyour idealsize s tocutfat intake right down.
She gave a sharp infake of breath.
They called for the defence system to be more closely integrated.
The department has successfully integrated new ideas into the traditional course structure.
The results should be integrated into the Jinal_ report.
This computer program can be inte- ‘grated with existing programs.
The lower primary pupils are well integrated into the lifeof the school.
Into They soon became fully integrated into the local community.
They didn't integrate with the other children.
Into the integration of disabled pupils into the general education system ~ with He called for greater integration with Europe.
The country is fighting to preserve itsterritorial integrity.
Her photography had great artistic integrity.
It's up to the user to ensure the integrity of thedatathey enter.
Weall havean interest in maintaining the integrity of the ecosystem.
The project threatens the integrity of one of the world's most important wetlands.
Nuclear weapons have the capability 1o destroy the physical integrity of the planel.
She questioned his integrity as a councillor.
The code calls on members to behave with integrityatall times.
She has a formidable intellect.
He enjoyed exercising his intellect in anaIysing thecontroversies of hisday.
This essay shows considerable intelligence.
Computer scientists studyartificial intelligence.
At least he fad the intelligence to turn off the gas.
We've obtained secret intelligence about enemy plans.
Military intelligence is gathered using sophisticated technology.
He works Jor the French intelligence service.
His unit was responsible for intelligence gathering in North Africa.
He should be able to solve the problem.
They do thelr best to make science intelligible toyoung children.
She found his motlves perfectly intelligible.
His reply was barely intelligible.
Czechand Slovak areseparate languages but they are rutually intelligible.
We need an explanation that is readily intelligibletoordinary people.
She ully intends to continue her sporting career once she has recovered from her injuries.
It was thought that the bomb might have been intended for avisiting MP intense adj.
The fighting in the area has intensified sharpls.
The extreme cold seemed, if anything, to intensify.
The reforms served only to intensify the miseryof the poorer peasants.
The sun beat down with fierce intensity.
He studied the report with great intensity.
Increase (in) Her headaches started to increase in intensity.
The pain wasgrowing in intensity.
Increasingly PHRASES labour intensive Rice production is very la- ‘Bour intensive (= requires 3 lot of lsbour).
Theyareclearly intent on maintaining standards.
Her gaze was suddenly intent.
Shewas very intent on her work.
My original intention was to study all morning, but this turned out to be impractical.
The council has an- ‘nounced s intention to crack down on parking offences.
The general intention behind the project is a good one.
The intention by the local autharity to build 2 000new housesis unrealistic.
We have every intention of winning the next election.
This hormone interacts closely with other ‘hormones in the body.
He interacts very well with other children.
Informal interaction among employees s seen as part of the ongoing training process.
Interaction Specific patterns of interaction in the family have been observed.
The program is fully interactive.
These parts are fully interchangeable with thasein other machines.
I'd call round later: over the~ Mr Jack's arrival was an- ‘nounced over the intercom.
She never had sexual intercourse before she was married.
The judge osked if she had consented to intercourse.
He admitted that intercourse had taken place.
He accused her of intercourse with another man.
Life is a pleasant blend of wark and social intercourse.
The police were starting to take a close interest in the company’s activities.
She always had a great interest in the Supernatural.
He's never shown the slightest interest in football.
He showed a polite interest in her story.
The event attracted a lot of media interest.
My cousin expressed an interest in sceing where 1 work.
She feigned interest inamagazine article to avold meeting the man's stare.
The government failed to drum up any public interest in the referendur.
While in prison he developed an interest in art.
Despite intensive publicity, Channel 4Jailed tomaintain interest in its expensive new show.
The children's interest began toflag after half an hour of the lesson.
I'm asking purely out of interest.
With~ They listened with interest.
Interest among teachers ~ from growing interest from younger members ~in She ook an active interest in their welfare.
Her comments areof particular interesttome.
Since the chempionship has alreads been decided, this match is of purelyacademicinterest.
Angelina Jolie supplies the love interest in theffilm.
His books areaf no Interest to meatall.
Their conversation held no interest for me.
Bushes that flower inwinter will add inerest to your garden.
He wanted time to pursue his many and varied musical interests.
It's not in your best interests to let your boss know you're looking for a new job.
Lawyers have a direct financial interest in the outcome of the debate.
Heclaimed to beacting in the public interes.
Various_interest groups "have expressed their opposition 1o the policy.
The solicitor refused to act against his client’s interests.
New work practices were introduced in the interests of efficlency.
We met fo discuss motters of common interest.
He was obviously acting purely out of selfish interest.
One member of the planning committee had @ conflict of interests as he lived near the proposed motorway.
Interest haart Although he was sometimes too strict with his chi dren, he had their best interests at heart.
He has controlling interests inseveral ventures.
It is this aspect of thework that really interests me.
She tried to interest the director in her scheme.
She got very interested in politics.
We need to get more young people interested in the sport.
You need to keep your audience interested.
Iy, keenly, more than a little, most, particularly, passionately, really, serlously, specially, terribly, very (much) Ben must have been more than.
He's not in the least bit interested in giris.
Carriewas only half interested in the conversation.
Charles had long been interested in architecture.
As a landowner, hewas actively interested in agricultural improvements.
In She's aliways been interested in other people.
This subject is intrinsically interesting and worthy of study in its own right.
It was always interesting 10 hear his stories.
Ifs not very interesting for visitors.
Emotional problems canseriously interJfere with student’s work.
The judge canrot interfere directly in these proceedings.
The court will not lightly interfere while an interim order isin place.
Britain has no right tointerfereinthe internal affairs of other countries.
Ifyou tryand interfere inmy life, Il eave.
The courts are reluctant to interfere in these ‘matiers.
In outsiders interfering in local politics with Yot mustn'tinterfere with her work.
The law is designed to prevent interference by local police.
My boss said she would brook no interference from other departments.
The value of the property almost doubled during the interim period.
The injured passenger received an interim award of £50000 damages.
In the~ Her job was done by her deputy in the interim before she returned to work.
The company uses the agency when a vacancy needs to be filled on an interim basis.
The ariginal interiar of the hotel has been replaced.
Thereisamplespace in the interior of the car.
He'd had two romantic interludes ina rather lonely life.
They were approached indirectly through an intermediary.
The product is then sold fo the end-user via an intermediary.
She agreed to act as intermediary betuween the two tribes.
The journey seemed interminable.
For several seemingly interminable seconds noone spoke.
Internet in the evenings.
Thausands logged on to view the live Internet broadcastof the concert.
The auction was held in Paris withan Interet link to New York.
Travellers can check their email at the Internet cafe in the square.
Registeringan Internet domain name isnowan essential partof setting up @ company.
Many of the sites launched at the peak of the Internet boom ‘have now cisappeared.
More and more people are shopping on the Internet.
Different people might interpret events differently.
The term ‘business’ is here interpreted ‘broadly to include all types of organization in the public andprivatesectors.
The strictness of the rules, even when liberally interpreted, has the effect of restricting innovation.
It is context and convention that deter- ‘mine whether term will be interpreted literally or metaphorically.
These figures cannot be easily interpreted.
These results must be interpret ed cautiously.
We all seek to interpret what we hear and what we read.
Her message was interpreted as a warning to the general.
Ancient Mariner has been variously interpreted (= interpreted in various differant ways).
Her resignation has been widely interpreted asanadmission of her guilt.
In practice, thislaw s often given a wide interpretation by the police.
Scientists made an interpretation based on the data available.
The wording of this section of the contract is open to interpretation.
Speaking through an interpreter; a Japanese fisherman gave his ‘account of the tidal wave.
Susan acted as interpreter for us.
Tie two problems areclosely interrelated.
Feminist ideas are interrelated with philosophical ideas.
The interrogation was conducted by senior palice afficers.
She revealed the name of her accomplice during interrogation.
Under interrogation, he reJfused tosayanything atfirst.
Don’t talk like that!” he interrupted harshly.
Their luncheon was brutally interrupted by gunfire.
The morning’s wark was constandly interrupted by phone call.
I'm sorry (o interrupt, but there's a telephone call for you.
It was all irrelevant, but I didn't dare interrupt him in mid-flow.
The game continued after a short interruption because of rain.
Ignore He ignored her interruptionand carried on talking.
He continued speaking despite regular interruptions from the Oppasition.
The birth of her son was a minor interruption to her career.
She ruled for ten years, except for a briefinterval.
You are aduised to leavea wide interval before you have your nextchild.
At intervals a bel rings and workers stop for a drink.
Trains run at fixed intervals.
He returned home during the day at regular intervals.
Intervals Meetings are held at monthly intervals.
Intervening militarily will not bring peace.
Eventually, the army was forced 1o intervene.
Local people feel strongly about the proposed development but are virtually powerless to intervene.
The UN' refused to intervene.
They would not intervene against the rebels themselves.
She went over Lo intervene betuween the two men.
She was reluctant to intervene in a private dispute.
Eventually, the army was forced to intervene.
Ppowerlessto Local peapie eel strongly about the proposed development but are virtually powerless to intervene.
Our government has no right to intervene.
The UN refused to intervene.
She went over (o intervene befuween the two men.
The King intervened personally on behalf of the children.
We would resist any armed intervention from outside in our country's affairs.
The king saw this victoryas the direct result of divine intervention.
He was furious at this intervention from the press.
T've got a job interview tomorrouw.
The survey team carried out over 200 interviews with retired people.
He'sa very private man and rarely does interviews.
Hesaid in an interview that he wanted to get married.
The prime minister gave the paper an interview about his musical tastes.
French Foreign Minister and the President of Egypt ~for an Interview for the post of sales ‘manager -with He had an interview with United Biscuits.
Vietnamese leader PHRASES a round of Interviews We're about to start the second round of interviews for the post.
She isn't capable of real intimacy.
He enjoys an intimacy with the prime minister.
The noise destroyed the intimacy of their conversation.
Intimacy He was prevented from declaring his love by his fear of intimacy.
The police had tried to intimidate him into signing a confession.
He was not a man to be easily intimidated.
Intimidated She did not feel intimidated by him.
Workers were subjected to intimidation as they crossed the picket line.
Workers continue toenter the plant despite intimidation by mass pickets.
The constant pain made her life intolerabl.
The job placed almast intolerable pressure on her.
The town began to show increasing intolerance of immigrants.
Of They aredeeply intolerant of all opposition.
He speaks excellent Spanish ‘but with a distinctly foreign intonation.
I've ‘mever mastered the intricacies of cricket.
The prime minister engaged in politicalintrigues against the king.
It all sounds very intriguing.
Ifound the story rather intriguing.
We have met before, but we haven't been formally introduced.
He introduced me asa new member of thecom- ‘pans: to She introduced me to her neighbours.
She attempted in vain to introduce 'some order into the classroom.
Into New techrology is rapidly being introduced intofactories.
These measures haveonly been recently introduced.
He began witha brief introduction.
In an/the ~ His mother is mentioned in the introduction.
It serves as an excellent introduction to 19th-century painting.
He surprised @ masked intruder in the kitchen.
Dogs can deter unweicome i truders.
He was stabbed when he tackled an i truder armed with a knife.
Staff wereinstructed to repel intruders with physical force, if need be.
Intruders had forced their way into the house.
In I really resented his intrusion in a family ‘matter: ~into media intrusion into the lives of celebrities ~on/upon an unwarranted intrusion upon the singer's privacy .
Planning permission was refused on the grounds that the proposed building would be ‘visually intrusive’.
Her feminine intuition told ‘her that he was unhappy.
It came upon him in a flash of intuition.
She had an intuition thather ‘mother wasn't very well.
Intuition told me we were going in the wrong direction.
By intuition, he sensed what was wrong.
This action would render the agreement invalid.
The contract was declared invalid.
His knowledgeaf the area made him invaluable.
You willfind their help absolutely invaluable.
This technology s invaluable for pupils with poor sight.
Your support has been invaluable to us.
Latest reports are of a fullscale military invasion.
Having all those photographers in the house was a terrible invasion of privacy.
Heailed 1o patent his invention and never madea pennyfromit.
The manager is compiling an inventory of all the hotel furniture.
In anithe~ There were no forks in the inventors.
That lamp isn’t listed on the inventory.
If you invest directly in the stock market potential profis are greater; but so are potential losses.
We can invest your money taxxfreeabroad.
When exchange controls were lifted Swedes rushed toinvest abroad.
Theindustry has falled to invest in new product development.
Her savings are invested with a building society.
The allegations have not yet been properly investigated.
Police have been called in to investigate the complainss.
The company has pledged foinvestigateclaims that its products are unsafe.
The authorities conducted an extensive investigation into his tax afJairs.
Carry out, conduct, pursue Police are still pursuing their investigations.
Closer investigation showed this idea to be untenable.
On investigatlon, the noise turned out to be ‘only adoor banging.
Thesinger is currently under investigation for possessing Hllegal drugs.
Police havelaunched an investigation intothe allegations.
The maiter s the subject of a police investigation, and we have been ‘advised not to comment.
He lost a lot of money through poor investments.
The president has called for massiveinvestment to rebuild the country's economy.
Inadequate Te country's infrastructure is crumbling because of inadequate investment.
Ihad made a personal investment in timeand energy.
It took two years beJfore I recouped my investment.
She felt the time was right 1 realize her investment, and sold all her shares.
When buying shares, it's wise to spread your investment over several companies.
Idon't really likemodern art but I bought it as an investment.
American pension funds~in investmentin localindustry PHRASES 3 loss on an Investment losses made or investments in stocks and bonds a profireturn on an VestmentI'm hoping for a good return on my investment.
Many ordinaryinvestorsstand to losemoney in thisaffair.
International, Inward, outside, overseas VERB - INVESTOR attract, encourage A stable firm is more likely to atéract potential investors.
Investors will be able to buy the shares from nextweek.
He wished that he could make himself invisible.
It's interesting how women are rendered invisible in these statistics.
Infrared light is invisible to the human eye.
We have an oper invitation touse their holiday cottage whenever we like.
An unlocked door is an open invitation to any burglar.
We'd love to to take up your invitation to visit you some time.
He is here to give a concert at the invitation of the British Council.
Membership of the club is by invitation only.
We got a wedding invitation from Shashi and Len.
The head extended an invitation to all parents to comeand see the school.
Youare cordially invited to attend the annual parish meeting.
She very kindly invited me to lunch.
They've invited usover for a drink.
As achild Twasallowed to play in the garden at the Manor but Inever got invited into the house.
Let's invite them all for dinner: to Thank you for inviting me to the meeting.
The hype and fervour surrounding the event positively invited scepticism.
The film seems to invite com parison with “The Italian Job'.
The house, with s boarded-up windows, was hardly inviting.
Theseller has to issue a tax invoice.
Value The shipping costs can beas highas 50% of the invoice value of the goods.
Inventions typically involve minor improvements in technology.
The reforms will inevitably involve a Iot of nnew paperwork for teachers.
She became heavily involved in politics.
He wanted to be actively involved in school life.
Drugs were not directly involved in herdecth.
He was involved in a road accident.
She first became involved with the organization in 1998.
It all sounds terribly involved and complicated.
When she was promoted, she missed the day-to-day involvement _with ~customers.
Nurses usually try to avoid emotional involvement with patients.
He encourages parental involvement intherunning of school.
The US government has ruled out military involvement in the region.
He isserving a 15 year sentence for hisalleged inwolvement in a plot to overthrow the governiment.
Winters denies any involvement in the robbery.
The project needs full involvement from all members of the group.
In ‘He wasfound to have a deep involvement in drug dealing.
Her husband’s involvement with another woman led totheir divorce.
Germany produced enormous quantities of coal, iron ard steel.
Usea cool ironon synthetics.
Her clothes were always beautifily ironed.
My jeans need ironing.
There's a pile of ironing waiting to be done.
This shirt needs ironing.
She'ried to ignore the heavy irony in his voice.
She congratulated him with gentle irony.
It is a nice irony that the Minister of Transport missed the meeting because her train was delayed.
The final irony was that he became Minister of Education having left school at 12.
Byacruelirony hediedina crash while returning home from the war: nal adj.
He dismissed her fears asirrational.
These practices are irreconcilable with the lawof the Church.
It would be highly irregular Jfor a police officer to accept money in this way.
The newspaper claimed there were widespread irregularities in the election.
Irregularities occur when thereis no central control.
In Auditors have uncovered serious irregularites tn the accounts.
These arguments were dismissed as irrelevant.
Ludicrously trrelevant thoughts swarmed in her head.
Her statement ls irrelevant to this cose.
It's allirrelevant to me.
The very high salary made the job irresistible.
His rugged good looks made him irresistible to women.
This was highly irresponsible behaviour.
Iy, utterly, wholly He's fun, but totally irresponsible.
She was moody at times and easily irritoted.
She was deeply irritated at being thwarted.
Hewas slightly irritated by her forgetfulness.
He felt slight irritation at being keptwaiting.
He showed no irritation at the delay.
She made no attempt to conceal her irritation.
Such delays can cause considerabe irritation.
Shedidn't et her irritation show.
In~ Gary shook his head in irritation.
Jfound to my great irritation that Td forgotten the film.
With~"Of course not" she said with some irritation.
This is a major irritation to travellers.
Traffic noise is a source of constant rritation.
The infection can cause intense irritation of the throat.
Stop using the cream if you get any Irvitation.
His money is inan offshore island bank.
He owns a house on the island.
The best beaches are on the southern tipof the island.
Without help, many elderly people would be left isolated.
She kept herself aimost isolated from her colleagues.
Unless a compromise could be reached the country would bediplomatically isolated on this Issue.
The country could Jace international isolation if it does not withdraw its itch troops.
Many immigrants experience isolation.
In~ The figures should not be looked at in isolation but aspartof a pattern.
In splendid isolation The fower stands in splendid isolation on the cliff edge.
Important, kay, m: major, vital Europe remains the burning issue within the parts.
The real issue is where the power lies.
The strike of ten years ago is still very much a live issue in the toun.
The issue of birth control was touched on, but we need to examine it in moredetait.
The report hightights three issues.
Thisargument should not be allowed to confuse theissue.
Whatyou say is interesting, but it does notafJect the point at issue here.
She spoke on the Issue of private health care.
The conference examined ey issues relating to the reform.
The safest cheques are those Issued directly by the bank—known as bankers' draughts.
He left the company and promptly issued a writ claiming S15million in damages.
Arrest warrants were issued against 16 of the protesters.
Secretary-General to The new ‘guidelines have been issued to alldoctors.
Some of the Ppolice were issued with rifles.
He was ilching for a chance to show how good hewas.
Her fingers positively itched with the desire to ‘slap his foce.
Fach individual item has a number.
Several valuable items were stolen.
Computers became @ consumer item in the early 1990s.
There is higher tax on luxury items.
The 19705 American model has become something of a collector’s item.
Several items af clothing were found near the scene of the crime.
Check the list carefully, item by item.
Include sth Your itinerary indludes a visit to Stonehenge.
Histori sites are featured prominentIy in their itineraries.
We'regoing togrowa variegated ivy up the back of the house.
The ivy's got very thick.
It needs cutting backa bit.
Thewalls were covered in ivy.
Ivy grew up the side of the house.
There was ivy clingingitothe wall.
Scott gavehim a sharp left jab to therits.
He worea tueed sports jacket.
She shrugged her shoulders into her Jacket.
Fie pulled his passportfrom his inside jacket pocket.
Jacket and tie Gentlemen are requesied (o wear a jacketand tie for dinner.
They scooped the jackpot in yesterday's lottery.
With good behaulour, she could be out of jail in two years.
He was threatened with jail if evidence of @ hoax was discovered.
She avoided jail by pleading self-defence.
Strangeways jail in (a/the)~ How long has she been in jail?o There was a fire in the jail lastnight.
She spread the toast thinly with raspberry jam.
The cupboards were Jammed full of old newspapers.
The traffic was jammed solid in the city centre.
The room is jammed tight with furniture.
The streets were completely jammed with traffic.
He was filling a jar with coins for his ‘holiday.
All necessary ‘means'is diplomatic jargon for ‘war'.
He fingered his jaw thoughtfully.
My jaw dropped in astonishment when I saw the size of the audience.
Her jauw was set, ready for a fight.
Jjutted stubbornly forward; he would not be denied.
In your~ A niuscle in his jaw pulsed angrily.
He had two days’ growth of stubble on his jaw.
She had a fold of flesh under her jaw.
The stern set of the afficer’s jaw made Tony realize he was in trouble.
The dog locked its jaws on her leg and wouldn't let go.
Jaws into my ankle.
The antelope could ‘notescape the crocodile's gaping jaws.
The dog had his arm clamped betuween itsjaws.
Ignore her—she's only trying to make you jealous.
Peter was obsessively jealous and his behaviour was driving his wife away.
There's nothing for you to feel jealous ‘about.
She was rather jealous of me.
He kad started to get jealous of her success.
He broke off the engagement in a fit of jealousy.
Lfelt a pang of jealousy.
She'd never felt jealousy beJore.
Her promotion ‘aroused Intense jealousy among her colleagues.
She pulled on a pair of faded blue jeans.
This scandal could seriously jeopardize ‘his chances of being re-elected.
His thigh muscle gave a sudden Jerk.
Sheanswered witha jerk of her head.
She suddenly Jerked her hand away.
His head jerked up.
Jork awake The train stopped and she jerked auake.
He jerked the door open.
The bus jerked toa stop.
Australia was a mere couple of hours away by Jet.
She was flown by private jetto the capital Lusaka.
In atthe~ He flew to Majorca in his private jet.
Little Jets of steam spurted from the engine.
His family are all practising Jews.
He was born a Jew in first century Palestine.
She inherited the family jewellery.
One plece of the Jigsaw is still missing.
The police managed to piece together the jigsaw and reconstruct the victim’s last hours.
The team seems to have shaken off the jinx that's been dogging them for monts.
The injury jinx has struck Real Madrid.
If's one of the top jobs in management.
The plum jobs all went tofriends of the prime minis.
Fis father found him a cushy job in the office, with almost nothing to do and a whacking great salary.
He was forced t0takeaseries of menialjobs.
He was tempted to give up freelancing and get a regular Job.
He'd done lots of part-time work, but this was his first proper job.
She's got averygood jobwitha local Sfirmaf solicitors.
She got a temporary job stacking shelves.
He's Just landed himself a highly-paid job in the City.
He's aliways had difficulty holding down a job.
We're interviewing for the Job in the Sales Department.
It is hoped that the scheme will create new jobs in the region.
Management are hoping to shed 200jobs.
The deal between the union and management should safeguard 6 000 Jobs.
I'm only doing my job (= doing what I am paid t0 o).
He certainly knows his job (= is very good athisjob).
The job doesn't pay very well.
Fis job title is Chief Hysgiene Operative.
Cleaning the office is not in my job description.
Thereisan enormous job market for teachers at the moment.
Workers questioned rated job security as being more important than high salary.
Local com- ‘panies are holding an open day for job seckers.
The introduction of job sharing could prevent the need for redundancies.
There's not much chance of promotion in a job like that.
You will receite training on the Job.
She found herself out of a job when her boss died.
She's got a job as a waitress.
She got a teaching Job at the university.
He moved toa better-paid job with another employer: © PHRASES a loss of jobs The closure of the cement factory will mean the loss of over 800 jobs.
Despite the small number of applicants, they managed to find the right person for the job.
They gave me the tough Job of telling applicanis that they'd been rejected.
Coaper had the unenviabie job ‘of announcing the redundancies.
You've done a grand job with that decorating.
Try wedging it open—that should do the Job (= be effective/successful).
The builder hasa couple of jobs on ot the moment.
She's taken on the job of organizing the Christmas party.
The author has done an admirable job in compiling all this material.
He made a very professional job of replacing the windows.
You've done a good Jobon the car: * PHRASES get a job done We're hoping to get the job done this weekend.
Saturdays doing odd jobs around the house.
He got six months for that last job he did.
The gang bungled the job and got caught.
Jobs be, workas~ She's awell-known writer Her father, a trained chef, now works as a bus driver: study to be, train as, train to be~ She trained as a painter and sculptor: start (work) as~ Hestarted work as a tralnee chef become, qualify as~ ‘She qualified as a vet last year: employ (sbas), have The company employs more than 1500 engineers.
They have recruited a new designer appoint, appoint sb (as), make sb~are usually used with academic, official or highly responsible jobs: Hewasappointed Professor of Law at Yale.
At 29 she was made chairman of the board.
The club have sacked their coach.
The race was won by top jockey Eddie Andrews.
He goes for a brisk jog before work each morning.
They jogsed steadily up the hill.
She decided (0 go jogging each morning.
She was jogging on the spot to keepwarm.
By this time people were flocking to join the cult.
Invite sb to They've invited us tojain them on their yach.
Thausands of people are expected to join the sponsored walk.
Will you join meshortly for a drink in the bar? In T'm sure you will all wish to join me in thanking our speaker tonight.
Please will you all join with me in singing the national anthem.
He waved a fork in greeting.
They all joined enthusiastically in thedancing.
Everyone joined in with the singing.
He's going to have his hip Joint replaced.
The joint should be able tomove frecly.
In afthe ~ You've got fluid in the joint.
That's an old joke—I've heard itlatsof times.
He's marvellous at telling jokes.
He's always playing jokes on people.
She likes to have a joke with her employees.
We all fell about laughing, but he didn't get the Joke.
The trouble is she can’t take a Joke.
Hetreated his exams asa huge joke.
The audience weren't very responsive and the jokes fell bit flat.
Tdplay a trick on them, but in the end the joke was on me.
It wasonly sald as a joke.
She was only half joking about being prime ‘minister one day.
We joked about the amount of luggage we had 10 carry.
Don't worry, I'm only joking! joking apart/aside (= used to show you are now being serlous after you have said sth funny), laugh and joke Trey laughed and joked s they walked along.
Noway am Idoing that.
My mother’s death gave mea severe joll.
She received such a jolt that ‘she nearlydropped her cup.
The blow sent a jolt of pain through his body.
Nature' was the highestranked journal in the survey.
It's the official Jjournal of the Medical Foundation.
Please send me two copies of your new Journal.
She subscribes (o quite a few academic journals.
Lady Franklin kept daily journal of the voyage.
Her journal entry for that day describes a thunder storm.
The events are ail recorded in her journal.
Hewrolea journal of histravels.
Id like a career in Journalism.
The bus driver told us where to change buses for our onward journey.
Have a saje journey.
The library was closed when Igot there, so it was a wasted journey.
He made the emotional journey back to the house he grewup n.
He wasn't there and we had a wasted journey.
We broke our return Journeyin San Francisco.
They continued their journey on foot.
The journey takes about five hours.
His journey took him acrass central Asia.
On~ They were on a journey to the Far East.
The bus journey from London to Athens took 60 hours.
Her books have brought great Jjoy to millions of people.
Iind joy in many kinds of music.
She got no joy out of working.
Joy in telling them the truth.
Protesters expressed joy at the government's deciston.
The children's expressions were a joy to behold.
The pride and Joyaf the town is the splendid castle.
By next year you could be it ting as a High Courtjudge.
The judge must direct the Jury on points of lau.
The judge admitted the notes of the interview as evidence.
The trial Judge dismissed her compensation clai.
Te Judge held that the company had been negligent.
The judge summed up and the jury retired 1o consider its verdict.
The judge ordered the company to'pay compensation (o the claimant.
You are the best judge of what your body needs.
He is a good judge of footballing talent.
Their performance of the concerto was beautifully judged and finely controlled.
There’s something I haven’t told you.
She Judged her words carefully.
The bowler judged it well, timing the ball to perfection.
Those who ‘preach intolerance should be judged accordingly.
Judge whether what she i doing is right or wrong.
He believed that schools should be Judged according to strictly academic criteria.
Jjudging his own performance against the performance of athers by You will be judged by the work you have produced over the year.
The age of the furniture can be udged from the type of wood used.
Your slogan will be Judged on its originality and style.
People use different criteria for judging success at school.
Judge by appearances, judging by/from sth He seems 0 ‘have been a popular person, judging by the number of ‘peaple at his funeral.
Tv judge from what she said, she was very disappointed.
Readers are left (o judge for themselves whether McCrombie is hero or villain.
Each painting must be judged on its own merits.
Remember to be tactful when expressing a personal judgement.
This latest case confirms my earlier Jjudgement.
It is 100 so0n to reach any deSinitive judgement.
The school inspector's function is not merely to pronounce Jjudgement, but also to suggest improvements.
The court reserved judgement on the tio appeals.
They are trying to get the judgement reversed.
She must make her own judgement about when to go.
The sacked workers won a judgement ogoinst the company.
Experience helps us to form judgements as to the best course of oction in given circumistances.
I'm not equipped to pass judgement on such maters.
She has a reputation for sound professional judgement.
He trusted his wife's judgement.
The company backed her judgement and implementedall her recommendations.
Henever allows any prejudices t colour hisjudgement.
He felt he had noright tositin judgement on ‘someone he had only just met.
You will need to exercise your own judgement about what clothes to wear.
The speaker showed good judgement in his choice of topic.
Accepting thegift wos anerror of judgement on the part of the party chairman.
How much money youshould invest is a matter of judgement.
She managed to get theman ina judo hold.
He's gota brown beit in judo.
She poured a jug of water over his head.
Sprinkle the avocadoslices with lemon julce.
The juice from the meat s used tomake the sauce.
JuMP make She made a jump for the river bank.
He took a running jump and just managed to clear the stream.
He's going to do a parachute jump Jfor charity.
Her heart gave a little jumpat his smile.
Allen won silver in the high jump.
Isatup with a jump (= suddenly).
The new law is a jump into the unknown.
In The sportswear company reports a jump in sales since the Olympics.
He was jumping up and down with excitement.
He tried to jump back on board.
He had to jump from a first floor window.
Into, off, on Stop jumping on the furniture! onto She Jumped up onto the table.
He almost jumped in surprise.
He crept up behind me and ‘made mejump.
Jjumped out of my skin when he told me.
Turn off the motorway at junction 6.
The college is on the Manchester road, by the junction with the A5.
This outback area is a far cry fromthecity's concrete jungle.
Brazilian jungle through~ They hacked their way through dense jungle.
She's quite junior in the organization.
John i still Junior to me at work.
There were bits of junk lying around.
They cleared out the junk room tomake a tiny bedroom.
He made the boatout of junk materials.
The commissioners had exclusive jurisdiction to decide.
The court has no Jurisdictioninthis case.
The court may exercise its jurisdiction to compel the husband to make a settlement upon his wife.
The offshore government claims Jurisdiction over the mainland.
He is subject fo the jurisdiction of the English courts.
The matter is outside the jurisdiction of UK administrative agencies.
Theterrtory is still under Russian jurisdiction.
The matter was not within the jurisdiction of the court.
The Jury were unanimous in their verdict.
Tell the jury what ‘happened, in your own words.
The judge directed the jury to return a verdict of ot guilty.
The jury has retired to consider its verdict.
The jury is still out (= still deciding).
The jury isstill out on this new policy.
The jury co victed Menzies of assaulting Smith.
The jury awarded her darm- ‘ages of £30 000.
It was the second time he had been called up for jury service.
The trial will take place before a jury.
There were only three womer on the jury.
The jury consisted of an architect, a photographer and an artist.
The jury has auarded the prize for bestexhibit in the show to Harry Pearson.
He saw it as rough justice when he got food poisoning from the stolen meat.
Some people sow the epidemic as divine Justice.
All I'm asking for is Justice.
We have been denied justicefor too long.
So far the robbers have escaped Justice.
He spent twenty years in prison os a result of a miscarriage of justice.
Vertthe course of justice She was charged with perverting the course of justice after admitting to burning vital evidence.
We consider this action justifiable.
The cutbacks arejustifiable on the grounds of cost.
The rule is Justifiableon safety grounds.
You have every justification for feeling angrs.
She had not giver: ‘him the siightest justification for thinking she was interested in him.
She's unable to provide any justification for her actions.
Justification with~ He felt, with some justification, that he had been unfairly treated.
She was arrested entirely without ustification.
Ican seesome justification for her remarks.
The suspicion proved amply justified.
In She felt fully justified in asking for a refund.
The meagre result ‘hardly justified the risks they took to get i.
He found it very difficultto justify his decision.
She's a black belt inkarate.
She's gota brown belt in karate.
Special page at SPORT keen ad.
Fe's mad keen on football.
The banks were not at all keen to lend to somebody who actually seemed to need money.
She was always keen to hear the local gassip.
She was naturally keen to makea good impression.
They were desperately keen for information.
Sally's quite keen on the idea.
It's time you did a job to earn your keep.
Milk and cream should keep quite well in @ Sridge.
The car pulled away from the kerb.
He stepped off the kerb without looking and was hit by a cyclist.
The car 'mounted the kerb and knocked over pedestrian.
They stood on the kerb waiting to cross the road.
Get yourself in, Pat, I've got the kettle on.
She made herself a sanduwich while she waited for the kettle to boil.
She turned the key in the lock.
You need a key to open the garage.
They heard a key turn in the back door lock.
You have (o close it with the key.
Il get another key cut so that youcan have one.
Alt, arrow, backspace, control, delete, escape, function, return, shift, etc.
Hold doun the Alt key while pressing thearrow keys.
The key tells you what all the symbols mean.
In althe ~ You can find the symbols in the key at the bottom of the page.
Firsttime voters could hold the key to the election result.
Language is the key to understanding thse aroundyou.
There are fwo sharps in the ke signatureof Dmajor.
The program locks the keyboard until a password is given.
Ed Duke wasat the keyboard.
He played the song on his keyboard.
The recording fea tures Herbie Hancock on keyboard.
Give thedoora good Kick if it won't open.
He gets a real kick out of mending something so that it con be used again.
It gove theyoungstersa kickto seetheir oun play on television.
They don’t really want the things they steal.
Don't kick the ball o0 hard.
Foster admitted punching and Kicking the mon repeatedly.
The boys were kicking @ ball ground in the yord.
She could feel the baby kicking cgainst her stomach wall.
Young people often kick ‘against convention.
She kicked at the loose pebbles by the roadside.
They threw him to the ground and kicked ‘him hard in the stomach.
She kicked me on the knee.
Kick a door down/open/shut Suddenly the far door was kicked open.
He rolled over in the sand.
The horse kicked out ot the yopping dog.
Kicking and screaming The police had to drog her kicking and screaming out of the house.
Kick your legs/your legs kick The little boy was now lying ‘on his back kicking his legs in the oir.
The older kids had lessons in the afiernoon as well.
Ifeeldesperately sorry for the poor kid.
We both wanted to have ids.
Fve tried to bring my kids up to respect other peopl.
You cor’t expect him to understand what's going on.
She was crying ltkea kid.
Ididn’teven get to see the fox, let alone bein at the kill.
The meat is divided up among all those present at the kill.
The animal crouched down, getting ready for the kill.
He has fought more than fifty bulls, Killing three outright.
They are quite prepared to Kill 10 achieve thelr ends.
Mum's going to Kill me when she finds out.
It must have been really auful tomake her kill herself.
Killed Their daughter was trogically killed ina road accident.
Overdoses were the single biggest iller among the city's young.
Salford Juniors proved to be the glont Killers in last week’s semi-finals (= by beating a much better team).
The killer has struck again.
Heart attacks ‘have become Britain’s No.
Instinct (figurative) He plays well but still lacks the killer instinct.
Owen delivered the Killer biow soon after halftime.
This was the fourth mass Killing in Australi in four years.
The Mafia ordered the killing.
It is difficultto prevent such killings.
The sensenced man had denied the killings.
No motivefor the killing hasyet been established.
Killing from the selloff.
Marriage between close kin Is prohibited.
Ties with extended kin vary JSrom familyto fomily.
One of the drivers wos fatally injured; his nextof kin has been informed.
She does the same kind of work as me.
You need some ind of cover over it to protect it from the rain.
Certain kinds of food are unsuitable for smallchildren.
Be sureto eatenough of the right kind of food.
The regions differ in size, but not in kind.
You'remaking progressof a kind (= some progress, but not very much, or not of the best type).
Kinds of its~ The ‘new school was the first of s kind.
Do you know the kind of thing Tmean?o They sellall kinds of things.
Imissed him, ina funny kind of way.
She was endlessly kind and sympathetic.
Of It really was most kind of you to help.
My boss has been extremely kind tome.
This unexpected kindness touched her deeply.
They had shown him great kindness.
They treated us with kindness and courtesy.
We met with much kindness and help.
Twent with her out of Kindness.
I'll never forget your kindness tome.
Show your appreciation by little octs of kindness.
She has always been kindness itself to me.
He became the uncrowned king of the East End, Scoring 28goals in hisfirst season.
He was crowned king at the oge of fifteen.
The ‘new king was crouned immediately.
Sleily also ruled over the southern part of Italy.
In a/the ~ It was one of the richest towns in the kingdom.
Try to catch some kip whileyou can.
The children hid behind the bike shed (o steal a iss.
She returned his kiss with passion.
As the train drew away he blew her a kiss.
He greeted her with a kiss on the cheek.
Kiss of life A policeman pulled theman out of the river and gave him the kiss of life.
Wewere greeted with hugs and kisses.
He bent to kiss her again.
She let him kiss her lightly on the cheek.
Kiss and cuddle The love-struck pair have ‘been spotted kissing and cuddling at parties.
Well, you car kiss goodbye to your chances of promotion.
There should be a needle and thread in thesewing Kit.
The kit contains everything you need to makesix canles.
They buil the garage from a kit.
In Kitform Thedoli’s house comes in kitform.
We handed our trays through the Kitchen hatch as we lef.
John wants tofly his newstunt kite.
He had the un- 'happy knack of making enemies in the parts.
Once you get the knack, it's easy.
Idon’t cook much these days and Ithink I may have lost the knack.
He has the knack of scoring goals just when they are most needed.
Making omelettes isn't difficult, but there'sa knacktot.
She gently kneaded the muscles in his back.
Add the water and knead the mixture well.
He hugged his knees to keep warm.
He went down on his Knees and begged for forgiveness.
She sat on her father’s knee (= lap) while he read her a story.
He slapped his knee as he rocked.
She had a blanket draped across her knees.
The children had learnt these stories at their mather's knee.
His leg was missing below the knee.
If you hear the crash-landing warning, put your head betueen your knees.
He's snapped a ligament in his knee.
Iwentdown on one knee to plug in the vacuum cleane on your~ I balanced the pile of books on my knees.
He was on his knees, searching for the missing spring.
The blow knocked him to his krees.
The fuel shortage brought the country toits knees within weeks.
She would ask for a rise, but would not beg for one on bended knee.
She picked up her knife and Jforkand started 1o eat.
Usea sharp knifeto cut away thesparepastry.
That knife doesr't cut very well it ‘needs sharpening.
The lines can be cut with a craft knife.
She carries a knife in her bag now.
He suddenly pulled a knifeon me.
Ste stabbed him in the back with a 12-inch knife.
Knife against/at/to sb's throat, a knife in sb's heart (fg- ‘urative) Bach word he uttered was a knife in her heart.
She put the knife to his throat to frighten him into silence.
He was rewarded with a knighthood for his services to the government.
She satdoing her knitting while shewatched television.
Tue tried twiddling the knobs, but nothing seems to happen.
She hurried to answer the knock at the door: PHRASES a knock ation the door There was a loud knock at thedoor.
You've had a nasty knock on the head.
Their pride took quite a knock when they lost 5-0.
Her boyfriend had been knocking her about.
The stick knocked against the wall.
He had knocked one of the pictures off the wall, on I knocked my head on one of the beans.
He was Anocked flying as tuwo policemen came crashing through the door: knock b off their feet The explosion knocked him off his feet.
The blow knocked ‘him unconscious.
Someone knocked loudly at the door: on She Knocked timidly on the study door and entered.
Dobson walked straight into her office without knocking.
Tie a knot i the rope.
She knotted the scarf loosely around her neck.
He knows a lot aboutearly music.
Idon'’t Knowof anyone whomight be interested in the job.
It Is widely known thot CFCs can damoge the ozone layer: know a lot, nothing, verylittle, etc.
She's very nice when you get to know her PHRASES be known to sb This ran is known to the police(=asa criminal).
The drug is variously known as crack or freebase.
Xinjiang was formerly known as eastern Turkestan.
He was known as Bonzo to his friends.
He doesn't have the technical know-kouw for this kind f job.
She has an intimate knowledge of the Asion market.
He managed (o find contacts who had inside knowledge of the organiza446 tion.
He has @ good working knowledge of the subject.
She had acted with her parents’ full krowledgeand consert.
The job gave her the chance to apply the knowledge she had acquired at university.
The volunteers’ task is tospread knowledgeof how toprevent the disease.
He dented all knowledgeof what had happened.
In the~ They put the car on the market in the full Jnowledge that it had design faults.
He's never worked here to my knowledge.
The letter was sent with the full knowledge of the head of department.
She borrowed my car without my knowledge.
She still lives in San Francisco to the best of my knowledge.
Her lauyerseemed very knouledgeableand experienced.
He's quite knowledgeable about the theatre.
The Assistant Manager was rapped over the knuickles for crittcizing the company in the press.
Korean noun = Note #t LANGUAGE kosher adgj.
All their food Is strictly kosher.
Employees enjoy the kudos that the job brings as much as the fi- ‘nancial rewards.
There was constderable kudos attached 1o being on the advisory board.
It doesn't have a pricelabelon it.
Always read the label before taking any medicine.
Onesometimes feels that the label ‘classic’ is applied to any book that is dull.
The record was produced under the Virgin label.
Some of the plants were wrongly labelled.
The samples were all labelled with a date and placeof origin.
She was wrongly labelled a liar.
She had automatically labelled the boys as troublemakers.
She ‘has donated money 10 establish a pharmaceutical laboratory.
Heruns hisown research laboratory.
They work in a laboratory studying growth patterns.
In althe ~ The offects of weathering can be simulated in the laborators.
She went into labour two weeks early.
Labour was induced when the baby was ten days overdue.
She was in labour for ten hours.
Hegot a jobas a builder’s labourer.
Gangs of labourers dug thecanals.
He's still a bit young to tie ‘hisown laces.
There was a distinct lack of urgenv inhismanner.
The situation was worsened by lack of communication.
They lost the game, but not for lack of trying.
She thought she would collapse from lack of sleep.
I've lost those skills through lack of practice.
There is cerlainly no lack of interest in the subject.
She completely lacks confidence.
Her high- ‘heeled shoes gave her the height she otherwise lacked.
His claim somehow lacked conviction.
His life scemed to lack direction.
Her {ife fet lacking in direction andpurpose.
Tom was conspicuously lacking in enthusiasm Jor the idea.
Her remarks were curlously lacking in perception.
They'reanice bunch of lads.
He went up the ladder onto the deck.
We put up the ladder and went to get the paint.
Severalof the lodder’s rungs were broken.
She was ‘onxious tomove up the promotion ladder.
Fe finally ‘managed to get one foot on the career ladder.
The trees were absolutely laden with apples.
With They arrived laden with gifts.
The school employs four dinner ladies.
We teased my uncleabouthis new lady friend.
She's a lady of leisure now that she's retired.
She did well in her first year at school but then started to log behind.
The Tories arestill lagging way behind in the opinion polls.
You should crss the lake before nightfall.
We walked around the lake.
Wehada holiday at Lake Como.
Carp live inthe lake.
She fellinto the lake.
There is a cafe on the other side of the lake.
Iam not going to be a sacrificial lamb on the altar of political correctness.
Special pags at F0OD lame adj.
His horse had gone lame.
It was good to be on dry lond again after months at sea.
The explorers reached land after a long voyage.
In the distance the crew sighted land.
The new project will reclaim the land from the sea.
With the lond forces defeated, everything nowrested on the navy.
If's impossible to reach this beach by land because of the high cliffs.
The land was very dry and hard after the long, hot summer.
This used to be common land, where everyone had the right t graze animals.
They finally got out of the town and reached open land.
Every scrap of land is used for growing food.
The college owns vast tractsof land.
The inhabitants of a village held land in common.
They were refused permission to develop the land.
During the war their lands were occupied by the enem.
He was granted land by the King.
Ir's very fertile countryside ‘whereyoucan just live off the land.
His fomily had always worked the land.
Many people leave the land to find work in towns and cities.
He' tired of living in cities, and wants to get back totheland.
He travelled to many distant lands.
She was all alone in a strange land.
Anyonewha thinks this legislation will be effective is living in cloud cuckoo land.
The pilot managed to land the plane safeby.
Trie plane Slowly came down to land.
The plane was Jorcedto land in a nearby field.
Wearedue (o land ot Heathrowat 12.
He tensed himself for the Jjump and landed expertly on the other side.
Shefelland landed heavily on her back.
The pilot had to make an emergency landing in a field.
The room opens off the landing.
There's a phoneon the landing outside your room.
He left the army and became a pub landlord.
The landlady came over to serve me.
After twenty years, all the familiar landmarks had disappeared.
The tower was once a landmark for ships.
The Russian Revolution represents a landmark in world history.
The flm isan important landmark in the history of the cinema.
The political landscape of the country haschanged since unemployment rose.
The ‘power station dominates the landscape.
The floods caused a landslide.
The village was destroyed by a landslide.
Nobody predicted such an electoral landslide.
The National Party won byalandslide.
Lighting is poor in the back lanes of thecity.
The lane runs past the the lake.
We cycled for miles along winding country lanes.
Get in lane early when approaching @ Jjunction.
Lane closures arecausing hold-ups on the M6 near junction 2.
The bus was crawling along in the low lane.
NoTE Language excellent, fluent, good, perfect~ ‘He speaks fluent Japanese.
Igotby with broken Chinese and sign language.
The inhabitants speak a kind of pidgin Spanish.
My spoken Polish Is better than my written Polish.
She isdoing course in business English.
Thefable s translated from the original French.
Tammore comfortable using Spanish, if you don't mind bafluentin~ ‘Shewas fluent in German, Urdu and Swahili do.
Idid German at school but I've forgotten most of it.
Tve been learning Arabicfor four years.
Imprave, practise~ Ispent a month in Rome to improve my Italian.
Inever really mastered Latin.
He has tronslated her lates! book into Korean.
I'm latefor my Russian class.
Gujerati interpreters acommand/knowledge of~ "He has a poor command of English.
What s apple’ in French? Headdressed mein his best Portuguese.
Ske grew up in Spain, 5o her first language is Spanish.
Most local cinemas show films in the original language, with German subitles.
Latin isa dead language.
Belgium has two official lan- ‘guages.
Portuguese is the national langucge of Brazil.
Some minority lan- ‘suages are dying out.
She could speak Some Chinese, but never studied the written language.
Not all decf people use sign language.
You could tellfrom his body language that he was very embarrassed.
His letter was couched in very formal language.
Her command of language is very advanced for sixyearold.
The referce warned the players to mind their longuage.
He shone his lantern into the dark room.
The lantern hung from the roof.
He seta new lap record.
Hetripped and fell on the final lop.
The silver medallist joined the winner inc lap of honour.
The water lapped around his ankles.
Thefreezing water lapped over her boots.
He was wearing a carnation in his Iapel.
He grabbed her by the lapels and shook her violently.
Icouldn't remember his name.
In a lapse in attention ~ of sudden lopses of concentration.
It was an odd lapse for one who is ‘normally so polite.
He comes ‘homefrom school and raids the larder.
There wasn't much food left in the larder: large adj.
Some of the clothes looked very large.
By this time his debt had got extremely large.
The plant had grown quite large.
Tfinitely The universe s infinitely lorge.
She batted her lashes Sirtatiously.
She lowered her lashes in sudden emborrassment.
Her lashes flickered and I knew she was lying.
Your car will last longer if you look after it.
With care, the vines willlast indefinitely.
The storm could last quite long time.
The Kids are all very enthusiastic, but it won't last—it never does.
This house was builttolast.
The war lasted for three years.
The celebrations lasted well into the next week.
The trialisexpected to last until the end of the wek.
Make the most of this feeling while itlasts late adj.
I'm late for work.
In He took up music late in life.
He was now three weeks late with his rent.
The train was 45 minutes late.
These birds only survive in temperate latitudes.
Some degree of latitude s required in interpreting the law on this point.
This method allows very litle latitude for error.
Nowadays, newspapers re allowed considerable latitude in criticizing the government.
The last joke got the biggest laugh.
He gave a short, amused laugh.
He enjoys a good laugh.
Few of his jokes got a laugh.
She gota laugh outof Jack.
She dyed her hair green just for laugh.
He left the room with a cynical laugh.
Weall had a great laugh about it afteruards.
Paul's aliways good for laugh (= always amusing).
We'll have the last laugh if she finds out that you're the ane who Dplayed the trick.
It looked sofunny that Ialmost laughed out loud.
He laughed heartily at his own joke.
She smiles and laughs easily.
He realized how he haod been fooled, and laughed bit terly.
He looked so funny I Just hod to laugh.
He pulled a funny face to make us laugh.
Tomarrow yau'll be able to laugh about this.
The audience laughed at her jokes.
Trent almost laughed with relief.
She was telling s jokes and we couldn't stop laughing.
It was so funny we just fell about laughing.
He laughed, and she found herself laughing with him.
Her infectious laughter had everyone smiling.
He gave ‘a sudden bellow of laughter.
Everyone dissolved into fits of laughter when they saw my haircut.
His suggestion was greeted with peals of laughter.
Aripple of laughter ran round the room.
They are preparing for the launch of the new campatgn ‘next month.
The show is timed to coincide with the launch of a new boak on the subJect.
In the six months since its launch the car has sold extremely well.
Tor a spring launch for thenew TV system.
The housekeeper cooks, does the loundry and dlears.
Purliament voted for the bill to Decome law.
If's the jab of the police to enforce the lau.
Judzes interpret this law in different ways.
Tre law forbids gambling of any kind.
The wearing of a crash helmet is required by law.
Noane isaboe the law.
Whatoudid wasclearly against the law.
By law, you are obliged to instell smoke alarms in the fuctors.
The company is operating entirely within the laz.
As the law stands, you can get married while still 100 young to have a driving licence.
Mortial law was imposed to prevent the ‘breakdowr of law and order.
When police failed to arrest the suspect, local Dpeopletook the law into their own hands and beat him up.
Note at SUBJECT (for more verbs and nouns) lawful adj.
This is a perfectly lawful activity.
The lawn really needs mowlng.
The cottage sits on hill abovea sweep of lawn.
They have agreed to drop their lawsuit against the Dutch company.
The company now Jaces several lowsuits over its failure to protect its employees.
She plans to defend the lawsuit vigorously.
In althe ~ They are secking damages in lawsuit.
He laid the ‘books down on the table.
She laid the child fenderly on the bed.
They carefully laid a blanket over the bods.
Twasparked inlay-by, having anap.
Mulch witha generous layer of peat or compost.
Usecnoughgravel toforma layer about 50mm thick.
The body had ‘been covered with thin layer of soll.
The building is constructed in layers.
The remains lcy buried under layer upon layer of black earth.
Before designing the house we planned the basic layout of the rooms.
He had grown lazy andfat.
We thought we were winning, so wegot lazy.
His smile was slow, almost lazy.
The government should give alead in tackling ractsm.
Weshouldfollow their lead in banning chemical weapons.
In, have She has a narrow lead over the other runners.
They took an early lead.
The team has now built up a commanding lead.
They regained the lead with only a few minutes left 10 ploy.
Sheffield increased their lead just before half time.
This win gives the team a tuwo-point lead over their closest rival.
Her big break came when she was chosen to play the lead in a Broudway musical.
The police are following every possible lead.
Lead on! sald Arnold.
Let me lead the way.
She led them along a dark corridor toa small room.
An old track led back through the wood.
Often there arediscoveries which lead nowhere.
Industrialization inevitably led to the expansion of the urban working class.
The use of soft drugs does not necessariy lead to a progression to hard drugs.
Business success does not automaticaily lead to financial success.
Discussion of a client’s tax affairs will lead naturally into consideration of investment options.
Sugar and fat can more easily lead to obesity than some other foods.
The carbon tox might well lead to ‘adoubling of prices or fossil fuels.
Worrying about your weight is more likely to lead to comforting yourself with a pieceof chocolate.
Conses vative, Labour, etc.
Discuss any problems with your feam leader.
Business leaders have been in talks with the government.
Zhe company is a world leader in electrical goods.
He was praised for his firm leadership.
He is standing in the deputy leadership election.
Wren Smith died, Bloir took over the leadership of the party.
In the crisis he showed real leadership.
He locks leadership qualities.
The school has flourished under the leadership of Mr Buxton.
What is really needed is clear leadership from the prime minister: ~in Leadership in sclence now went to the United States.
The ground was thick with dead leaves.
Throw the tea leaves on the flower bed.
This plant has beautifully variegated leaves.
It was spring and the trees were coming into leaf Inthe spring the plant began fo put out new leaves.
Deciduous trees shed their leaves in autumn.
The summer was over and the leaves were beginning to turn.
The leaves rustled in the light breeze.
Issue, produce, publish The Health Council issued hundreds of leaflets.
Campaigners handed out leaflets to passers by.
They want to start a new Jfootball league.
Sunday He played Sunday League cricket for sears.
The team joined the Northern League last year.
Theteam is now in the Premier League.
Today's technology isin a different league (= very much better).
Asa painter he is ina league of hisown (= much better than athers).
The boal had a small leak.
The pipe hes sprung a leak.
The dismantling of a nuclear reprocessing plant caused a leak of radioactivity yesterday.
Fortunately, we spotted the leak in time.
The plumber fixed the leak.
Pollution inspectors were called to a leak froma chemicalfactory.
The leak could only ‘havecome fromone source.
American authorities * PHRASES the source of a leak The orgonization’s press secretary is though to be the source of the leak.
The house was old and the roof leaked quite badly.
The document had been widely leaked.
Thereport was leaked to the pess.
He leaned closer, lowering his voice.
She leant forward eagerly to listen to him.
She was leaning confidentially across the table.
She leaned her head against his shoulder.
He leaned into the open doorway.
The old man was leaning heavily on.
She leaned casually over the roil ings.
The taxi driver leaned through his window.
Britain leans heavily on Europe for trade.
Hemadea flying leap at the ball.
There has been & quantum leap in prafits since 199.
They've made a great leap forward with their road bullding in the last fewyears.
He almost leaped down the stairs when he heard who it was.
She leaped clear of the water.
He leaped out of bed when he heard the telephone.
Rosie immediately leaped to herfeet.
Children learn very quickls.
They soon learn that bad behaviour is a surefire way of getting attention.
Hewas eager to learn all she could teach him.
She learned from watching others.
Wefirst learned of the problem from her school.
She was a quick learner, and her German got better by the day.
The book has been written with the interests of young learners inmind.
Thewholeteam has been on.
The centreaims to provide a supportive learning environment.
They've gota lease with five years to run.
Sreeholder may grant a lease of any duration.
They moved out and the lease was surrendered.
The lease runs from April 1.
Thecorn- ‘pany holds the bullding on a long lease.
Under the new lease, the rent would go up.
He took a lease of the premises.
The club has @ 20-sear lease on theproperty.
The leather has been treated with wax.
Each volume is bound in genuine leather.
I've stll got some leave left this year.
She spent most of her leave with her family.
I'm saving all my leave to have a long holiday later in the year.
When the war broke out all leave was cancelled.
He asked leave to absent ‘himself for four days.
No application may bemade without the leave of the court.
We were all packed and ready to leave.
Did you want something? I was Just about to leave.
They were being extremely rowdy and the manager had to ask them leave.
They leftfor Scotland this morning.
Introductory Professor Pearson gave the inaugural lecture in the new lecture theatre.
The society s puiting on series of lectures on the subJect next term.
The fire bell went during his lecture.
Professor Jones's work in her lecture on Shakespeare's imagery.
She read mea stern lectureon ingratitude.
Igot lecture from Dod about coming homean time.
The climbers were clinging to a ledge hundreds of feetabove the sea.
Ifeltalong the ledgeat the top of the door.
The phone was perched precariously on the window ledge.
My dad’s in the front row, on the extreme leftof the picture.
If you turn to your left you will seethe parliament bullding.
The car came from the left.
The bank is on the let, just ofter the post offce.
As you go in the door; you'll see it on your left.
The car park is on the left of the library.
He looked to the left and then crossed.
Arabic script readsfrom right to left.
They're both on the extreme left of the party.
The party has moved Jurther to the let.
He is sometchat to the lef of the previous leader.
He sat down with his lame leg outstretched.
She crossed the finish lineon tired legs.
They don't train the day before a match toensure they havefresh legs.
He put his back against the car.
They made him put his handson the police car and spread his legs.
She Stretched her legs under the table.
It was good 1o get out of the car and stretch our legs (= walk about).
Wt The dog lifted its leg ogainst the lamp post.
She swung her legs over thesideof the bed and reached for her crutches.
They gazed at each other their legs entwined under the table.
She had her leg amputated below the knee.
They ran together, their legs mouing in unison.
She started running, fut legs pumping.
He sat with his legs dangling off the bridge.
You don't get much legroom on economy-class flights.
The dog sloped off its tail between its legs.
I've got big bruise on my leg.
These jeansaretoo long Intheleg.
The fastest runner often runs the anchor leg (- the last one) of & relay.
He received a large legacy from his uncle.
She left her the money in a legacs.
She is the heir to a legacy of £tmillion.
These problems havearisen asc resultof historical legacies.
Such attitudes ore a legacy from colonial times legal adj.
Itis perfectly legal to charge extra for these services.
Her lawyer is challenging the legality of the court order.
The government does not recognize the legality of this court.
The story of how 'she was rescued has already passed into legend.
He told us the legend of the ghostly horseman.
The legend of his supernatural origins lives on.
According to ancient legend, the river is a goddess.
There have always been stories of human glants in Celtic legend and mythology.
Legend has it that the Bridge of Sighs got its name from the cries of prisoners being led across it.
Mexico the subject of legend The unusual shell has long been the subject f legend.
Her handuriting was clearly lewible.
The price must be legible to purchaser.
The police think that such legislation would be unworkable.
The terrorist attack prompted knee.
They are calling for tough legislation to tackle this problem.
Any- ‘one has the right to initiate legislation in Pariiament by means of a private bill.
Congress approved legislation which outlawed the sale of the drug.
Member states may no adapt legislation consrary to EU law.
The reform will make it mare difficult for MPs ta block legislation.
Companies have until December 310 comply with the new legislation.
This will be a criminal offence under the ‘new legislation.
They are planning the introduction of legislation against sex discrimination.
Legislation on this issue s urgently needed.
She is the youngestwoman to be elected 1o the national legislature.
The legislature comprises a 212 member Chamber of Deputies elected for fouryear term.
The legislature passed a law to prohibit the dumping of nuclear waste.
The legislature voted narrowly totablea motion of no-confidence in the government.
We have mare leisure than our parents had.
Garnish the fish with wedges of lemon.
Shevery kindly lent me her bicycle.
The bank was unwilling to lend him themoney.
Tvelentmyecar 1o George or the weekend.
The bank is the lorgest mortgage lender in thecountrs.
The bank wos an important lender (o the British government.
There is a maximum length of 2500 words.
The queue stretched the whole length of the High Street.
He measured the length and width of the table.
These fish can reacha length of over two metres.
Measure the size of the window and cut the cloth to length.
The Jfence runs the length of the footpath.
Thiere were coloured lights along the whole length of the street.
The pipe was two metres inlength.
He has (o hold newspapersat arm’s lengih to focus on the print.
He fold me at length about his new job.
In~ Each lesson wasan hour in length.
They complained about the in ardinate length of time they had to wait.
Idid 20 lengths today.
Agreement was finally reached after very lengthy discussions.
After a fairly lengthy delay, wewere able to contine.
Judges are advised to show greater leniency towardsfirst-time offenders.
She begged for leniency for her son.
Let's hope the judge shows leniency towards her: PHRASES a plea for leniency Even the victim's family madea plea for leniency on behalf of the accused.
The appeal judge agreed that the original sen tence was unduly lenient.
The police are sometimes more lenient with Jfemaleoffenders.
She wears glasses with very thick lenses.
The photograph was taken using a zoom lens.
Put your hand in front of your right lens and just look through.
She came out as les bian in her teens.
The singer has become a lesbian icon.
Eating a good diet significantly lessens the risk of heart disease.
The noise began to lessen.
Toomuch background detail tends to lssen the impact of the central image.
Regular exercise can help to lessen the pain.
English, geography, maths, piano, swimming, etc.
Italian lessons at the local college.
We had a history lesson Jollowed by a double maths lesson.
I'm taking driving lessons at the moment.
She gives singing lessons.
They're offering free lessons in computing.
He doesn't teach very many lessons these days.
The trouble is that teachers don't prepare thelr lessons carefully enough.
He got into trouble for skipping lessons.
Notalking was allowed during the lesson.
Civil War ~in He took lessons in Thal cookery.
Roman Empire~with They've ‘gota lesson with Mrs Evans at two o'clock.
It'sa hard lesson to learn.
It taught me somevaluable lessons about working with other people.
There are important lessons to be learnt from this mistake.
All these knives are absolutely lethal.
It was a potentiatly lethal mixture of drugs.
Thepesticide is lethal to all insect life.
She was suddenly overcome by lethargy.
After the meal, I could feel lethargy overtaking me.
She received countless letters of support while in jail.
Apart from the occasional letter they had not been in touch Jor years.
The porter distributes incoming letters to the offices.
The conditions are explained in the accompanying letter.
Send your CV with a covering letter.
T've had job interviews and received ten rejection letcers.
She wrote an impas sioned letter to her local newspaper to complain about the new road.
He had been sending poison pen letters to his neighbours, hoping to make them ‘moveaway.
The letter was forwarded from my old address.
The letter was addressed tome.
The newspaper refused to publish the letter: * LETTER - VERB arrive, come, reach sb I hope mylast letter has reached you.
The letter is dated 7 July.
Our letters crossed in the post.
His letter went on io give reasons for his reJfusal to take part.
The letter concluded with a threat of possible legal action.
The charity received an anonymous letter enciosing a large cheque.
Advertising Mania’ appeared in the paper.
The postman put a bundle of letters through the letter box.
Fill in the Jform in block letters.
The company’s name is made from the initial letters of his children’s names.
Words with double letters, suchas ‘accommodation’, are commonly misspelt.
His name was written in large white letters over the dooriway.
You need one whole head of lettuce for this salad.
All she had was a tomato and some lettuce.
The newspapers are full of stories of teukaemia clusters near nuclear establishments.
Her blood pressure has returned to ts normal level.
They have achieved higher levels of efficiency.
She predicts that fuel prices will remain_at current levels.
Emissions are well below the levels set by the World_ Health Authority.
Morigage rafes were 10% above thelr current level.
Rents will be kept at this level for another year: below aftha~ Radiation is well below the “permitted tevel.
The teaching is at quite a basic level.
They have a good range of entry-level lever computers for beginners.
Her iliness has reached an advanced level.
The difficulty level of the exercises in the book varies widely.
She has played tennis ata high level.
The book is not suitable for students below degree level.
The party needs to win support at grassroots level.
These decisions aremadeat board level.
At the local level there’s a lot to be said Jfor the plan.
At a conscious level, I wes quite satisfied with my life.
We probably need to look at this problem at @ more detaited level.
They are going to raise the level of the banks to prevent flooding.
The plane was flying at a very low level.
The water roseto the level of the ground floor windows.
Are we on the right level for the restaurani?to althe~ Take the liftto Level Four level adj.
Make sure you get the shelf level before screwing it in.
Keep the pot level, or you'll spill the coffee.
As they reached the finat bend, Graham drew level and threatened t00 overtake him.
The top of the water came level with her chin.
Wher: the lever is operated, the machine sews backwards.
To release the brake, pull the lever towards you.
Push the gear lever into first.
Setall three levers 1 the 0position.
He threw lever and the engines roared to lif.
This could serveas a powerJful lever for peace.
Position the piece of wood sa that maximum leverage can be applied.
They are determined togainmore political leverage.
They have no legal liability for damage to customers’ possessions.
They have denied liability for the accident.
He wans 1o know the precise amount of the liabilities he is taking over.
There is enough maney to cover existing liabilitis.
They could be fourd liable for the entireamount.
Iy, severally (law) Partners are jointly and severally (= together and individually) liable for a partrership'sdebs.
She's ully liable for the company’s debs.
Her job is (o liaise betuween the school and the hame.
The tax office liaises closely with our department on such matters.
We maintained a close liaison with the trade union.
We are hoping to establish better customer liaison.
In=with If's important that we work In close 1iaison with other charities in this field.
She is reSponsible for liaison with researchers at other universities.
She was having a romantic liaison with her husband’s best friend.
She's an accomplished liar—they believed every word she said.
She's the biggest liar I've ever known.
He has Issued a writ for libel against the radia star Michael Cler.
His attitudes are quite liberal.
Up in ihe 'mountains we had the most wonderful sense of liberation.
The city won its liberty in the sixteenth century.
If found guilty, sheis in danger of losing er liberty.
The new legislation threatens individual liberty.
Our personallibertyis being eroded.
The system allows us complete liberty 1o dothe task aswe like.
The escaped prisoner has been a liberty for Jive days.
Infringement of liberty, loss of llberty, & threst to liberty.
In 1784 heestablished hisfirst circulating library.
It s a copyright library and recelves three capies af all books published in Britain.
The school has an excellent library.
Everyone in the country should have access to @ lending library.
The library has anextensive callection of books on French history.
I've been reading newspapers in thelibrary.
The/umily possessed anextensive library.
She had builtup animpressivelibraryof art books.
The govern- ‘mentis currently granting no operating licences toforeign firms.
The CDROM comes with a single-user licence.
The bar was refused @ music licence.
You have fo have a licenceto sell beer.
Applicants must hold @ valid driving licence.
You can buy a TV Ii cence at the post affice.
She gained her private pilot's licence.
The company has won the licence to run trains from the south coast to London.
He's lieutenant had his licence taken away.
She lost her driving licence when she was caught drink driving.
Al these details are specified in the licence.
The weapons were exported under ‘special export licence.
They are Italian trains, but they will be built in Britain under licence.
Choose a dish with a tightfitting lid.
She lifted the lid of the box.
We managed to prise off the lid with a tyre lever.
The coffin lid had ‘beenscreweddown.
Keep the lid on the pan until theliquid comesto the boil.
His name wason the lid.
She felt the tears burning ‘against her closed lids.
She scw James walk inand hastily lowered her lids.
She lifted her lids and found him looking at her.
Heavy lids drooped over her eyes.
She could stillsec the light lickering ‘behind her closed lids.
Sheglanced at him occastonally from beneath lowered lids.
He waswatching her through hooded lids.
He lived lie for thirty years, pretending 1o be the faithful husband of two different women living intwo different towns.
He was lying down on the bed.
Lie still while I put the bandage on.
Shelay sprawled on the sof.
He was unable to lie convincingly.
She lied about her age.
He lost his life in an air crash.
She clung 1o lifefor several weeks.
She risked her lifefor thesakeq/ thechildren.
She begged the soldiers to spare her sor's life.
The crash claimed 43 lives.
His foolishness almast cos! him his life.
Shetook her own Iife.
Therestaurant started lifeasa cinema.
No lives were lost in the accident.
There have been threé attemptson the president’s life.
Witnesses are living in fear for thelr life after glving evidence against the gang.
These talks are a matter of Iife and death for the fuctory.
The driver showed nosigns of life.
In loter life he took up writing.
He never discussed the unhappinesses of his past life.
Ithink Imay have been an animal in @ previous Iife.
He was a miner all his working Iife.
She went through life always wanting what she couldn't get.
He ‘spent his whole Iife in Cornwall.
He ended his life a ‘happy man.
He devoted his life to the educationof deaf children.
Japaresepeople havea very high lifeexpectancy.
She thought marriage should be for life.
Throughout her life she was dogged by loneliness.
Tve known her allmy life.
Her paintings became ‘moreobscure towards theend of her life.
Shediscovered jazz quite late in life.
Jright of my life when I sw the snake in my bed.
He met the loveaf his lifeat college.
She sensed she was entering a new phase in her life.
You're still in the prime of Iife.
He'll be haunted by the crash for the restof his lfe.
She did not tolerate press intrusion into her private life.
Only his wife had access to his inner Iife.
Hisfame was so sudden that he wasunprepared for public lfe.
What's the nightlif like in the town? I city, village.
He built his whole life ‘around his children.
She is still rebullding her life after the accident.
He always had a great love of life.
There has only been one ‘woman in his life.
His time in London was his first glimpse of the seamier side of life.
They both seem to want the ‘same things oul of ife.
She leads a busy social life.
Learning meditation changed her life.
Henever let his work dominate his life.
He ruined his Iife through drinking.
They went to Australia ostarta new Lfe.
Healways believed in living life to the ful.
New Yorklive a lite of .
They're living a lfe of luxury in the Bahamas.
The pace of life is much ientler on the island.
He gave up his high/lying job and now enjoys a better quality of life.
She loved the Spanish way of life and immediately felt ot home there.
The city only comes to life at night.
They need some new, younger staff to breathe some life into the company.
The lifeboat was called out five times in the January storms.
The lifeboat s stationed justalong the coast from here.
Infon a/the ~ There was only room for ten peoplein the lifeboat.
Iis body was limp and almost lifeless.
She loy there, apparently lifeless.
The acting was dull and rather lifeless.
Catch, oling to He clung tothe lifeline and the woman pulled him towards the bank.
Visits from loved ones are vital lifeline Jor prisoners.
The state pension is their financial lifeline.
He threw me a lifeline when e offered me a job.
With this one unexpectedvictory, the club now has a lifeline.
She had to change her lifestyle and eating habiss.
They enjoy a very comfortable lifestyle.
We want them to ‘adopta healthier lifestyle.
He devoted a Iifetime to working with disabled children.
It took @ whole lifetime to solve the mystery of her father's disappearance.
This watch should lastyou a lifetime.
It seems a lifetime since we first met.
The veteran director won a lifetime achievement award.
Payments are based on expected lifetime income.
After lifetime as a journalist in the troublespots of the world, he retired to the country.
T've seen many changes during my lfetime.
The artist was little known in his lifetime.
She spent a lifetime in politics.
In your own lifetime Herbert von Karajan was a legend in his oun lifetime.
The hotel has a private lift linking it t0 the beach.
The lift serves the top four Jfloors of the building.
You'll need your lift pass for the ski lifts.
We stood by the roadside and thumbed a lift.
Don't accept lifts from strangers.
He offered usa lift home.
Her hugged her, almost lifting her off Ihe ground.
Carefully lift the cake off the tray and cool on a wire rack.
Shewas lifted bodily aboard by two salors.
She lifted back the sheet.
The box was so light ‘heavy T could barely litit.
Hestood, legs apart, arms lifled above his head.
She leaned on him and he half lifted her down the stairs.
He felt as if an enormous weight had been lifted from his shoulders.
The heavy beams were lfted into place.
She lifted the book up of the table.
He lifted the baby out of its cor.
She lfted the child over thefence.
Julietnodded, Iifting her face to Dovid's.
The police manoged to restore calm and the curfew was partially lifted.
The government decided to1ift the ban on arms exports.
We could hardly see the ball in the failing light.
There was a flash of light followed by an explosion.
Light from a tall lomp fell in 0 pool on the desk.
The light reflecting off the snow wos dazzling.
We were momentarily blinded by the light of the sun.
You could see the imperfections in the repair when the light caught it.
She held up the letter against the light.
They managed to see where the door was by the light of the moon.
Bring it into the light and we'll have a look at it.
The place looked calm in the golden evening light.
Nothing can travel Jfaster than the speed of light.
The lamp was the only source of light in the room.
The car was stopped at the side of the road with its hazard lights flashing.
The ‘pilot could just make out the runway landing lights.
Some cars already had their lightson.
Someone shone a light inmy fuce.
Nlash He flashed his lightsto warn the oncoming cars.
The warning light came on.
The blue light was flashing.
The light flickered a couple of times then went out.
She paused to light anather cigarette.
Therewasanexplosionand the wholesky litup.
Her face lit up with pleasure.
It was starting to get light.
As soon as it grewlight, wegot up and dressed.
We'll set out as soon as it's completely light.
It was almost light outside.
It was not light erough to see things clearIy.
The whole house was beautifully lightandairy.
The tent is light enough for ‘backpacking and touring.
The trafficis usually fairly light in the afternoons.
He flicked his lighter but it didn'tcatch.
The wine had ‘made hima little light-headed.
The generator supplies emergency lighting.
The kitchen hasn't really got adequatelighting.
Forked lightning flickered across thesky.
Lightning lit up thenight sky.
Lightning hit the tree.
He was struck by lightning.
Lightning strikes caused scores of fires across the state.
Ireally like that restaurant.
There's everylikelihood that she'll beableto helpus.
Taking regular exercise reduces the likelihood of a heart attack.
This shouldn'taffect the likelihood of you getting the job.
In all likelihood, he'll befitto ikely adj.
It is highly likely that the factory will have toclose.
They're hardly likely to get home beforeten.
Thechildren all share a strong family likeness.
There's a superficial likeness, butthey'rereally verydifferent.
The weather's 00 hot for my liking.
The food wasn't really tom liking.
Weshare alikingfor ltalian cooking.
Stift I eased my stiff limbs into the hot bath.
The animal is able to stand up on its ‘hind limbs.
Serve the dish garnished with wedges of lime.
She accused her costar of trying to hog the limelight.
She likes being in the limelight.
The band started touring again after two yearsoutf the limelight.
The application must be made within a strict time limit.
There's a weight limit on the bridge.
Central government has set a limit on spending by local councils.
She pushed me to the limit of myabilities.
The level of radioactivityin the soil wasfound to be above recommended limits.
Twas ‘almost atthe limits of my patience.
The price Jell below the lower limit.
The trees are found only belotw @ limit of 500 metres.
Heat levels rose beyond the recommended limits.
He'd been drinking and was well over the legal limit.
You can buy cigarettes up to a limit of 200 per person.
They did well within the limiss of thelr knowledge.
There was no school within a limit of ter miles.
The children can do what they like, within limits, without~ Banks may bu bills of exchange without limi.
There'sq limit on the number of tickets you can buy.
The change in the law wasdesigned to limit the scope for corruption.
The teaching of history should not be limited to datesandfigures.
There should be no limitations to progress in the talks.
At fimes his technique seems totranscend the limitations of the piano.
The team’s technical line limitations were exposed by the ltalians.
You've Just got toaccept your limitations.
It's a useful book despite its timitations.
Places are strictly limited, so you should apply as soon as possible.
The role that women could play was soclally limited.
We're really limited in what we can do these days.
They walked back to thewaiting limousine.
The accident ‘had lgft him with a slight limp.
He had hurt his leg and was limping badly.
He limped away from his car: limp odj.
His arm hung limp at his side.
Her hair looked limp and lifeless.
Her body suddenly went limp.
Deep lines ran from her nose to her mouth.
He has lines on hisforehea.
In (a/the)~ children standing in a line on aithe~ Start each paragraph on a new line.
Speak up-—it's rather a bad line.
Hold the line (- Don't put the receiver down), please.
He kept shouting down the line at me.
It's your mother on the line (= on the telephone).
The branch line is threatened with closure.
Take the Bakerloo line and change at Piccadilly.
We live on the Northern Line.
The broad lines of company policy are already laid down.
Into The other members of the board must be brought intoline.
The coat is fully lined.
The case was lined with black velvet.
Wechange the bed linen once @ week.
The smell of lavender lingered Jaindly intheroom.
The feelings of hurt andre- ‘seniment lingered on for years.
On Her eyes lingered on the stranger’s face.
They stayed in the restaurant, lingering over coffee.
Scientists have established possible links between cancer and diet.
The common link betuween the three artists is their age.
The report fuiled to prove a causal link between violence on screen and in real life.
The college is keer to build links with local industries.
The statistics show a clear link between social class andcrime.
The sales manager is regarded as the weakest link in the chain.
The driver has a radio link to ‘base.
Diseases that can be directly linked (0 pollution.
Inescapably, inevitably, inexorably, inextricably, inseparably Poverty and crime are inextricably linked.
She has never been romantically linked with anyone.
The two spacecraft will link up in orbit.
Into The computers are linked into a network.
Scientists have linked the iliness to the use of pesticides.
He bit his lip nervously, rying nottocry.
She pursed her lips in disapproval.
He licked his lips hungrily.
He nervously moistened his lips with his tongue.
His lips curled contemptuously.
Thefirm lips poutedin a sulk.
He ran his tongue round his lips.
There wasa stight smileon her lips.
She pul on a quick dab of lipstick and rushed out.
She touched up her lipstick in the mirror.
Her lipstick had smudged and she looked a real mess.
Empty the liguid into a large bouwl.
Drain off the liquid from the meat into @ measuring jug.
Reduce the liguid by boiling for two minutes.
After two hours of the meeting we stopped for liquid refreshment.
The medicine is usually iaken inliquid form.
The firm may be forced into liguidation.
The restaurant finally obtained a liguor licence.
We arecomplling afull listof all local bustnesses.
We're on the waiting list for membership of thegalfclub.
The play has an impressive cast lst.
The club captain has been put on the transfer listat his own request.
In althe ~ Names of past members are not in cluded in the list.
Sofety is high on our list of priorities.
Phoning the bank Isop of my lst of priorities today.
Nouw, listen very carefully towhat she says.
The guests were listening with great interest.
Pym listened impassively until the woman had finished.
They listened to the announcement in stlence.
He refused 10 listen 10 her explanation.
We listened anxiously or the sound of footSteps.
Al the children are tested in basic literacy.
Only highly literate people are capable of discussing these subjects.
They are the first Jully literate generation in the counry.
He was uneducated and barely literate.
Both parents were literate in English.
There's an extensive lterature on the subject.
The payment was made to avoid threatened litigation.
He engaged in endless litigation against the media.
Please do not leave litter after your picnic.
Litter was strewn all over thefield.
The local council haspledged to clamp down on litter loutson the beach.
She disapproves of unmarried couples living together.
The couple have lived apartfor two years.
London when T was three.
He lives in Manchester.
She lives quite near here.
Istill live withmy mum.
Women live longer than men in general.
Who wants to live forever? Idon't.
Al she wanted was to get married and live happily everafter.
Most of the people live very well, wit; nice houses and.
They lived frugally off a diet of porridge and lentils.
She tried to livevicariously through her children.
Many of the people live in poverty and misery.
She lived through twa world wars.
She lived 10 the age of 95.
In teaching children about the world we live in live adj.
He appeared live on the Song ‘and Dance Show.
The band have never plaged this song live before.
In those days the broadcasts all went out live.
Thematch will be televised live this evening.
The new law threatens the Livelihood of thousands of farmers.
The boat was ‘his main source of livelihood.
She eked out a meagre living as anartist'smodel.
Her dream was to earn her living as a singer.
The plane took off witha full load.
We're trying to spread the load by employing more staff.
The tables creaked under their ‘heavy load.
Try to avoid politically loaded terms like nation’.
The odds wereslightly loaded against us.
In favour of The legislation is heavily loaded in favour of employers.
As it was an unsecured loan, their property was not at risk.
They used theinheritance to pay off their outstanding loan.
She had to take out a bridging loan unil she could sell her house.
My bank manager offered to make me a loan.
They were struggling to meet thelr monthly loan repayments.
The bank provides personal loan facilities at competitive rates.
The ‘book must be returned by the end of the loan period.
He ran up massive debts borrowing from loan sharks.
The paintings are on loan from the Wallace Collection.
He's given us theloan of his car for the weekend.
People who to0k football too seriously aroused deep loathing in me.
Sheelt an intense loathing for her boss.
The incident has created anatmosphere of fear and loathing among the peaple.
Industrial, nuclear, political, atc.
Many groups have together mounted a lobby against cuts in hospitals.
Villagers haveorganized a lobby for improved local faclities.
Head teachers have been lobbying hard against education cuts.
The group successfully lobbled Jor changes in the lax.
The organization has ‘been set up to lobby the government on behalf of all the ‘pecple who have lost their pensions.
The group achieved its aims after months of political lobbying.
The machine can accurateIy locate radioactive material.
We ‘haven't yet been ableto locate a suitable site.
Some stars are quite easy to locate with telescope.
The hotel is centrally located betuween Dam Square and Central Station.
Tuo people can meet in v tual reallity even if physically located in different continents.
Your accommaodation is conveniently located withinwalking distance of the town centre.
The map shows the exact location of the mine.
The meeting is taking place ata secret location.
The film is being made on location in India.
We had new locks fitted after the burglary.
He turned the lock and pushed the door open.
She flicked a stray lock of hair off her face.
She had long flowing locks and blue eyes.
He carefully locked the door behind him.
Keepyour garage securely locked.
In7locked myself in the bathroom.
The road was blocked by fallen logs.
She kepta log of thelr voyage.
Philosophers use logic to prove their arguments.
There is a compelling logic to his main theory.
There s sound commercial logic in never giving creditto retailers.
It a stupid decision that completely defies logic.
You car’t uszthe same logic in dealing with children.
What's the logic behind this decision? ~In There doesn’t seem to beany logic in themove.
It all sounds quite logical.
His arguments seemed perfectly logical.
The issue here is purely logical: it has nothing to dowith ethics.
The company has a distinctive logo that makes it well known.
The diary features the organization’s distinctive new logo.
The new logo was unveiled in a blaze of publicity.
She was desperately lonely at school.
She felt oddly lonely without her ly He longed desperately t be back at home.
She had always longed to go abroad.
He hated the city and longed for the mountains.
That dress looksa bit long tome.
Economy class can be uncomJfortable for those with extra-long legs.
Hls journey to work s quite long.
Hefeltan overwhelming longing to hear her voice agan.
The town is at longitude 26°west.
This line of longitude cuts through the jungle.
Some of these creatures are remarkably long-lived.
We got stuck in a trafic jam and I was desperate for the loo.
He flushed the letter doun the loo.
Take a closer look at i.
We need to take an overall look at the situation.
The book takes a nostalgic look at the golden age of the railway.
You should take a long.
The book takes a humorous look at parenthood.
She couldn'tresista quick look in the mirror.
Have a look out of the window and see who's at the door: ~through I had a brief look through the report before the ‘meeting.
The book concludes with a look towards the future.
She watked out of the door without a backward look.
Egyptian music, butdidn’tfind anything.
She threw him a dirty look.
The guilty look on his face told us all we needed t know.
They had worried looks on their faces.
The man had a wild look in hiseyes.
He gave me a funny look.
Igot a black look from Amy.
They exchanged meaningfiul looks.
He darted her a look of contempt.
Sie had @ puzzled look in her eyes.
He opened the door with a scornful look on hisface.
Joe Isn't getting much sleep from the ook of him.
By the looks of it, someone’salready staying in this room.
He still had a youthJullookabout him.
He had classic good looks.
She's lost her looks.
In (fashion), go out (of fashion) The classic look never goes out of fashion.
Look at the machine quite care.
She looked up at me sharply when I'said that.
He looked longingly at the food on the (abl.
He was looking studiously down to avoid meeting her eyes.
He turned 10 look as she came down the stairs.
I'l look and see if I've got any sugar in the cupboard.
The audio tape runs in a continuous loop lasting thirty minutes.
Put the other end of the string through the loop.
Lau designed to closeany loopholes in tax.
One of the bricks feels slightly loase.
The top of the tap has come loose.
Her hair hung loase about her shoulders.
The animols ‘had broken loose from their pens.
The organization broke loase from ifs sponsors.
He felt he had to cut loosefrom his family.
The company stands to lose financially if this deal falls through.
You have nothing to lose by telling the truth.
This is a ‘game that Lazio cannot afford to lose.
We lost against Leeds.
We lost by five goals to two.
The visiting side lost to the home team.
Win or lose, the important thing istoremain calm.
Many of the canalchildren were constantly on the move, and lost out on regular schooling.
He's extremely competitive and @ bad loser.
The main loser was the United Left, which lost eight seats.
If the teachers go on strike, the children are the ultimate losers.
The ship sank with great loss of life.
She suffered a significant loss of hearing after the operation.
His death is @ sad loss ta all who knew him.
Weight loss can bea sign of a serious illness.
The company is expected to announce 200job losses.
China mourned the loss of a great leader.
She wouldn't be able (o attend the lecture, which was no great loss.
She was filled with an overwhelming sense of loss.
The business sustained losses of £20 million.
It taok the firm five years to recoup its tosses.
We can offset the loss against next year's budget.
No bank would be willing to underwritesuch a loss.
The bookshop was operating at a loss.
Wemade net loss on the transaction.
The enemy suffered heavy losses.
Fighter ‘plones inflicted heavy losses on the enems: lost adj.
We got ost in the woods.
By this time we were completely lost.
Alina was looking totally lost.
She bought the whole lo.
He parked his caravan on a vacant lot.
She dabbed calamine lotion on her mosquito bites.
We're having a lottery to raisemoney for homeless families.
The lottery hasraised millions of pounds.
She turned the radio up loud.
Her voice sounded unnaturally loud.
Zommy’s vaice came loud and clear from the back row.
Loudspeakers ‘broadcast the foatball results.
Christmas songs blared from loudspeakers.
We heard the news over the loudspeaker.
He had an abiding love of the English countryside.
You have my undying love.
They were into Jfree love and avoided commitment.
She felt no love for him.
He had a great love of life.
At last she had found true love.
You promised me love!" he cried despairingly.
Hedidn't return her love.
Bob sends his love.
He fel i love with one of his students.
It was the first time they had made love.
He wanted to make love to her.
We are very much in love.
Shehad a great love of painting.
Do you believe in love at first sight? the love of sb's life Shewas the love of his lfe.
He loved his wife dearly.
He wanted to be unconditionally loved.
The cool water felt lovely after being in the hot sun.
Your idea of a day on the beach sounds lovel.
She looked really lovely In the blue dress.
She's got an absolutely lovely Jace.
They're colleagues as well as belng long-time lovers.
They became lovers when ‘her husband first went abroad.
It was com- ‘mon for upper-class women to take lovers.
He had experienced all the highs and lows of an actor’s life.
The windows look very low to me.
Thie failure rate is extremely low.
Thisdish svery low infat.
Christina blushed and hastily lowered her eyes.
She lowered herself into the driver's seat.
He carefully lowered the sleeping child onto the bed.
She lowered herself down to the floor.
We want 10 keep the whole affair as low-key as possible.
The wedding was a ver lou-key affeir.
We have a fairly low key approach todiscipline.
Thetroops remained loyal to the presiden.
Ing He shawed unswerving loyalty to his friends.
Rows with one’s in-laws aften create divided loyalties.
His prime loyalty was to his family.
He inspires great loyalty from all his employees.
They Dpledged their loyalty to the king.
Some party ‘members found it hard to tronsfer their loyalty to the new leader.
His loyalies lay with peoplefrom the same background as himself.
She stayed on at the schaol autof loyalty toher students.
The village is the object of fierce loyalty among its inhabitants.
Mass advertising creates brand loyalty for a product.
The company ex pects loyalty from its employees.
It was sheer luck that we metlikethat.
It was roften luck tobe llan the day of the interview.
By a stroke of luck I came across itina local bookshop.
This ring has always brought me good luck.
It looks as though our luck's finally run out.
If aur luck holds, we should win.
He went on gambling, sure his luck was about to turn.
By ill luck, my flight had beer cancelled.
Talways carry it with me, justfor luck.
You're in luck—there are just two tickets left.
With luck, we'll get there befre it closes.
If youdidn'twin a prize, better luck next time.
He couldn't believe his luck when the other candidate for the job withdrew: just my luck Just my luck ta get the broken chair! lucky adj.
He considered himself lucky to ‘have had the opportuni.
Iy, extraordinarily, extremely, incredibly, really, remarkably, terribly, very She is incredibly lucky to be alive.
It was lucky for you that na one saw yau.
Wecertainly struck it lucky with the weather.
The plot was sosimple, itwasalmost ludicrous.
You are only allowed one piece of ‘hand luggage.
In They like you to check your luggage in an hour before the Jight.
She was distinctly lukewarm about my idea.
They crossed the road during a tullin the traffic.
Tie colours were bright, almostluminous.
Stir the sauce toremove any small lumps.
He's developed @ painful lump on his neck.
She's Just had a breast lump removed.
She felt a lump in her breast.
We went for a sandwich lunch at the local bar.
The soclety's annual lunch will be held next Wednesday.
Come and have @ spot of tunchwithme.
They met at a literary luncheon.
Coughing clears the lungs of mucus.
The smoke was beginning to choke her lungs.
Water had entered his lungs and he was choking.
Lungs bursting, sheflew across the finish line.
Into the~ These particles are breathed into the lungs.
He had blood clots on the lung.
He ‘skipped past the defender's despairing lunge.
The burglar made a lunge at him witha knife.
The boymade a sudden lunge for his wallet.
Her heart gave a little lurch when ‘shesaw him.
Jokn felt a lurch of dismay.
The train stopped with lurch.
Starting her own business wasa lurch into the unknown.
Suddenly the truin lurched violently.
The coach lurched along the mountoin road.
He lurched towards the door: © PHRASES lurch to your feet The drunk lurched to s Jeetand tried tofollow us.
She can't resist the lure of the bright lighs.
Hefelt the lure of distant places.
She felt ro lust whatsoever for him.
The car felt luxurious.
Camping these days can be positively luxurious.
Silk shees added the final touch of luxury.
Iive) 3 life of luxury 7 found out that he wasn'tdead, but living e lifeof luxury in Australia.
We can’t afford luxurtes.
He missed the simple luxuriesof life, like regular meals.
She's had every luxury in life.
There are some intensely Iyrical passages in his first symphony.
She wrote an al- ‘most lyrical account of her childhood.
Strauss set several of Mackay's Iyrics to music.
Lorenz Hart ~for the Iyrics for a new tune ~to Heuwrote the lyrics to our first song.
We've had a new washing machine installed.
The pofatoes are planted by machine.
Just put those clothes in the machine (- the washing machine).
The independent candidates did not have the support of a party machine.
Tired of being a tiny cog in a vast machine, he handed in his resignation.
The department ran likeawell.
Themachinery is housed in a special building.
He went mad and spent the rest of his life locked up in a mental haspital.
The world had gone completely mad.
His experiences in the First World War drove him mad.
Her colleagues thought her quitemad.
It makes me really mad when peaple waste fool.
Tiey say that talking to yourself is the first sign of madness! a moment ot madness In @ moment of madness, Isaid I'd help him.
She hit him with a rolled-up ‘magazine.
Check a listings magazine for what's on this weekend.
The magazine corried an interview with the actor considered Hollywood's hottest property.
He earns extra money doing magic at children’s parties.
People found guilty of practising black mogic were hanged.
Themagicslowly begins towork, ‘and the princessstarts tocome to lifeagain.
Therabbit disappeared by magic.
Themoney had reappeared as if by magic.
Dy absolute, pure, sheer The shouw is three hours of puremogic.
The fireworks brought a touch of mogic to the occasion.
Her beauty had an almost magical quality.
He isdue to appear before ‘magistrates in connection witha public order offence.
Whitby magistrates heard yesterday.
Magistrates adjourned the case until June 9.
The place isa magnet for tourists.
He exudes astrong sexual magnetism.
The magnetism produced by the battery attracts the metal.
His ‘personal magnetism drew people to the church.
The daring of his exploits had been hugely magnified by constant telling.
The picture ‘shows the insect's head magnlfied len times.
The effects were substantial in magnitude.
Stars of the first magnitude are visible to the naked eye.
Her calculation was out by several orders of magnitude.
They had a daily maid, but no live-in servants.
Internal If we want 1o send something to another department, we use the internal mail.
Junk mail stralght in the bin without reading it.
He has received death threats and hate mail from areryfans.
We got the Post Office to redirect our mail when we moved.
The mail Is collected twice a day.
The postcode allows the mail to be sorted automatically.
She checked her mail before leaving the hotel.
Sendit by firstclass mail.
We're on the mailing list for the Film Centre.
There's a burst water main in Quarry Road.
They're laying a new gas main through the toun.
Themain serves four villoges.
Turn the water off at the mains.
Some of the remoter houses in the village are not on themains.
InMwithin the ~ He was in the mainstream of Brit ish contemporary music.
This technology was designed for spectalists but Is now starting tomove into the mainstream.
He drifted out of the ‘mainstream of society.
This style of drama.
Weareanxious to maintain our close links with the police.
The government's position became increasinglydifficult to maintain.
He emphasized the need to maintain the stotus quo.
The power stalion has been shui doun Jor " essential maintenance.
The engine is designed for easy maintenance.
This type of garden requires minimal mainten.
We carry out routine maintenance of the equipment.
He was Jailed for foiling to pay maintenancearrears.
He pays £1000a month in child maintenance.
The march was by the silent majority wha opposeterrorism.
English speakersform the majority of the population.
The French company holds a majority stake in the retail chain.
In the ~ In the general population, right-handed ‘peaplearein the majority.
Although they are the biggest single party, they don't have anoutright majority.
They fuiled to win the requisite two-thirds majority.
Latest opinion polis have a comfortable majority against the reform.
Pariiament ~n favour of Opinion polls indicated @ two-thirds majority in favour of ratificotion of the treaty.
Jealousy is not part of his make-up.
Malaria is transmitted by mosquitoes.
The male of the species has more brightly-coloured feathers than the female.
The club is an exclusively male preserve.
The workforce is predominantly male.
He nodded with a peculiarly male satisfaction at her capitulation.
He bore me no malice.
She felt no malice.
She sacked him out of sheer malice.
You're lying, he said, without malice.
He gave a faintly malicious smile at her furious expression.
Several people made speeches in hanour of the greatman.
He's a family man who rarely goes out with his friends.
He was a lucky man to have found such a partner.
Tve never been a gambling man.
He found success hard to come by after losing his righthandmon.
He walked out of court afreeman.
Iniman the brain is highly developed.
Ske was finding it difficult to manage financially.
We'll just have to manage somehou.
We will actively ‘manage your portfolio to maximize the return on your investment.
All our tropical timber products comefrom sustainably managed sources.
The children were very difficult 1o manage.
Youneedto learn how to manage your time effectivel: manageable ad).
The job is just about manageableinthetime.
He's been sent on an anger management courseto help him control his temper.
The project ~needs stronger management.
She is re- ‘sponsibie for the day-to-day management of the company.
She is now celebrating ten years in management.
The club prospered under Ferguson's management.
The restaurant is under new management.
The unions have critlcized management over their handling of the dispute.
This decision should be taken ata higher management level.
Each programme is discussed with the responsible manager.
He will be the club's caretaker manager until a new manager is appointed.
Itis undemocratic to govern an area withoutan electoral ‘mandate.
The Party sought a mandate to reform the constitution.
Hefailed in his mandate.
They ruled the country under a United Nations mandate.
The party was elected with @ mandate to reQuce the size of government.
She has received a clear mandate for educational reform.
The horse tossed its flowing mane behind it.
She spent ages braiding her horse's mane.
The horse's mane streamed in thewind.
Hehas a maneof white hair.
He greto from adolescence to young manhood.
It seemed they were Jfighting to provetheir manhood.
She had amania for fast cars.
The violenceof the crowd can only beex.
Hewas driving likea maniac.
In The manifestation of the disease in adults is lessdramatic.
In althe~ The policy is outlined in the party's election manifesto.
Labour won the election on this manifesto.
They believe that voters can be easily manipulated.
Children try to manipulate you.
She knotws how to manipulatethe audience.
People think that the in vestigation was independent, but in fact a lot of political manipulation went on.
The government has disguised the true situation by clever manipulation of the figures.
According to the Bible, the whole of mankind is descended from Adam.
It is doubtful whether this research Isof any benefit tomankind.
The results of the research were made freely available for the benefit of all mankind.
You are not approaching the problem in the correct manner.
Chemical waste must be disposed of in an environmentally-responsible - manner.
Files have been stored in such a haphazard manner that they are impossible 1o find.
The dispute could have been handled in a more constructive manner.
He was behaving in a highly suspicious manner.
He answered in such an offhand manner that I wondered if he'd misheard me.
His nomnonsense manner gave him the reputation of being a good doctor.
The authoritative manner in which he talked concealed his ignorance.
Pphone He'sa good doctor with a sympathetic bedside manner.
She has a very pleasant telephone manner.
He fends to adopt a condescending manner when talking to young women.
She accused the teacher of not acting in a professionalmanner.
His manner changed ab ruptly when he heard how much I wanted.
Her brusque manner concealed a caring nature.
He was not as loutish as his manner suggested.
Inalthe~ The inspection was conducted in a thoroughly professional manner.
He lectured us In the manner of a headmaster.
There was something in his manner that Ifound very irritating.
All claims must be settled in a professional and timely manner in no uncertain manner He told her in no uncertain manner that her be- ‘haviour was unacceptable.
Impeccable, nice, perfect It's not good manners to stare at people.
His children haveno fable manners.
I'm sorry, I was forgetting my manners.
He could at least have had the manners to answer my lettera lack of manners Her lack of manners s quite appalling.
He has this irritating mannerism of constantlyscratching his nose.
The pilot has to carry out a series of complex manoeuures.
Her withdrawal from the contest was a tactical manoeuure.
By this manoeuvre, he hopes to gain an advantageat alater stage.
Chancellor’s freedom of manoeuvre.
The government has very litHeroom for manoeuure on this issue.
The unit is on manoeuvres in southern Italy.
He skilfully manoeuvred the motor boat past therocks.
He had manoevred his way into a position of strength in the party.
The clutter of ships had little room to manoeuvre.
Manpower will be reduced by an average of 20 per cent.
Beverly Hiils, Hollywood, etc.
The rebels besieged the heauily-fortified executive mension.
The historic mansion stands in 160acres of parkland.
The directors of the roilway company could be charged with corporatemanslaughter.
The computer comes with a comprehensive owner’s manual.
Check your manualfor details.
According to the manual, the wires should be the other way round.
They commenced large-scale commercial manufacture of the chairs in January.
The date of manufacture of the jewellery has ot been authenticated.
Instructions The guarantee may be rendered invalid if the manufacturer’s in structions are not followed.
The company set up & manufacturing operation in Lisbon.
In, work in Work in plenty of well-rotted manure.
Gopy Jonly have one copy of the manuscript.
He was delighted when the manuscript was accepted for publication.
Her autobiography remained in manuscript (= was not published).
One contemporary manuscript shows Henry IT crouned by the hand of Christ.
Hotwdo you get there? ‘Tl draw you @ quick map.
The museum s clearly marked on the map.
We spread the map outon the floor.
Our village is justoff the map.
Hesays that he keeps it by marathon running.
The hotel s traditionally furnished, with cool marblefloors.
They reached the enemy position ofter an arduous approach march.
Villages in the army's line of ‘march were burned to the ground.
The border wasstilla day's march away.
The/armers halted themarch outside the Ministry of Agriculture.
There were in excess of 100000 people ot the march.
There will be a special march pastof competitors.
The orchestrastruck upa military march.
Time marches inexorably on and we still have not made a decision.
Craig marched up to the front door and rong the bell.
Soldters were marching up anddown outside the ‘government buildings.
The intading army marched on Rome.
So saying, she marched boldly out of the house.
They marched all the way from London to Edinburgh.
Thedemonstrators marched on the ltalian embassy.
She ‘putsome margarineon her roll.
Cream the margarine and sugar together.
Start writing at the left-hond margin.
In the~ Shescribbled notes in themargin.
She won bya clear margin.
Hehad an 16-second margin over his nearest rival.
Hewon by the narrowest of margins.
Sales predictions are open to widemargins of errar.
The device gives a greater margin of safety.
Wehaue substontial reserves, which provide @ good margin for uncertainties.
The schedule Ieft no margin for error.
Were working to rother tight profit margins.
These manufucturers ‘have high gross margins.
Higher productivity has enabled them to increase their profit margins.
Price rises have eroded profit margins.
They are operating at very low margins.
They hope to improve their margins on computers.
The dirty water lefta mark round the side of the bath.
These greasy marks just won't come out.
There were grubby marks on the wall.
The experience left a deep markor: her memory.
Such thoughtful behaviour is the mark of a truegentleman.
Igot ull marks Jfor my homework.
She ook off @ mark for bad handuriting.
If you get below 40 marks, you're not allowed to go up into the next class.
We've reached the halfivay mark in the show,.
The river was at its low-water mark.
Your grammar is notquite up 10 the mark.
The shot found its mark.
My room was clearly marked on theplan.
Certain wards were marked as important.
Some of thecrates were marked for export.
Mark the position of all the building sites in black.
All buildings are marked on the map.
The boundary was marked with adotted line.
The paperueight had fallen onto the desk, badly marking the surfuce.
The town is still deeply marked by the folk memary of the Depression.
Lyrical Ballads’ conveniently marks the beginning of ninzteenth-century poet3.
The wedding ceremony publicly marks the beginning of commitment toanather through marriage.
This speech appearsto mark a change ingovernment policy.
There isa strongly marked difference between the two creatures.
Most cranes lay two heavily marked eggs.
These trout are beautifully marked with bright red spots.
The market is held on Wednesdays.
They took the pigs tomarket.
They're hoping to get into the Far Eastern market.
The market was down 15 per cent.
The company has created a nichemarketfor itself.
Some services cannot be left 1o the maret.
The printer is ‘being selectively marketed ina handful of countries.
It will be marketed as a tonic for the elderly.
The product is being marketed through the existing sales force.
The company is not actively marketing its products to schools.
The company has done some effective marketing of the new model.
She works in marketing.
We could get more sales through better marketing.
In aithe ~ The company found it hard to survive inachanging marketplace.
The wedding reception was held in marquee.
The guests sat on a platform under alargemarguee.
She was the child of a broken marriage.
He had an unhappy marriage with an older woman.
They are struggling to save their marriage for the children’s sake.
Their marriage ended in divorce.
Daughters were expected to join their wellbred friends on the marriage market.
She's his daughter by a previous mart, marriage.
They are related by marriage.
She was the dominant partner in the marriage.
The marriage was celebrated in the cathedral.
She wanted (o be present at the marriage of her grandson.
Ann to Mr Thomas Lea.
The newly married couple left for their honeymoon in Spain.
He promised to marry her when he returned.
Matt toldme hewas going to marry again.
They plan tomarry next year.
Duty forbade them to marry.
He asked me tomarryhim but Isaid no.
He married her for love, not for money.
They are hoping (o get married next year.
People are marrying later these days.
He keeps his cattle on the marshes.
Thecity remains under martial law.
Killing him would only make hima martyr.
Stop playing the martyr.
Onecan only marvel at the way the building has been constructed.
Inever cease tomarvel at his stupidity.
He marvelled at how easy it was to make money.
Her tears had smudged her mascara.
The ceremony is exclusively masculine.
He has an aggresstvely masculineapproach to these questions.
Two eves glared at him from beneath the mask.
She warea mask over her face.
Her face wasa blank mask as she answered my question.
For a moment her mask slipped, ‘and Isaw how scared she really was.
Behind the mask of friendliness, I know he really dislikes me.
His fooling around is a maskfor his lack of confidence.
Wood stains provide good protection but tend to mask the natural grain.
She masked her anger with a smile.
There's streak of masochism in his personaliy.
Their policies appeal to the broad mass of the population.
When I washed the jumper, it just turned into a shapeless mass.
She never failed ta attend Sunday Mass.
The local priest celebrates Mass in the village church.
The massacre was carried out by enemy troops.
They managed to revive the injured driver with cardiac massage.
The physiotherapist gave me a massage to ease the pain.
She went fo the massage ‘parlour fora full-body massage.
Gently massage the cream into your skin.
He massaged her back with scented oil.
Massage it lightly with your fingertips.
His political masters are all old rightwing politicians.
He wants to bemaster of his awn destiny.
He's a past master at delaying meetings.
R'S do, study for, take He did a Master's at Hull University.
He never completely mastered theart of lip reading.
It's one of the greatest masterpleces of Westernart.
Within a week of ‘publication, the novel was hailed asa masterpiece.
Children show gradual mastery of reading in the first years at school.
The allied bombers had total mastery of the skies.
He shows complete mastery of the instrument.
He acquired mastery of four languages.
Theking had absolute mastery over the country.
He's such a keen fan, he even goes to all the away matches.
The match will be played in the new stadium.
Figo had an outstanding match.
Wedrew our Jirst game of the season 1-1.
Saturday's match in althe ~ She was injured in last week's match.
Wales ~between the match between Japan and Brazil ~with They last their match with Estonia.
He lit a match so they could see inthe cave.
Someone had put a match tathe pile of papers.
The blouse and skirt are aperfect match.
That jumper should be ‘agood maich for your trousers.
Asa couple they are not very well matched (= they are not very suitable for each other).
The raom was fullof old furniture that didn't quite match.
The control group in the experiment was ‘matched for age and sex.
Nothing quite matches the fine, subtle flavour of this cheese.
The company was unable to match his current salary.
Children can be made to suffer when they Jfatlto match their parents' expectations.
Noother rock band comes even close to matching them for dynamism or style.
The teams were very evenly matched.
We have to match up the right pet with the right owner.
The available organs are carefully matched to people in need of transplants.
The agency tries to match single people with suitable partners.
He's got loads of mates at school.
These birds have colourful feathers toattract a mate.
Higher rawmaterlal costs have pushed up the Drice of many manufactured goods.
Prisoners were not allowed uriting materials.
The letter were used as source material i thisnew blography.
He was convicted of importing indecent material.
He's collecting material for a new book on space travel.
The rise in share prices Jailed tomateriglize.
The class were struggling to find the solution to a maths problem.
Important, pressing, serious, urgent, weighty He left, saying he had pressing matters to attend fo.
The question of his innocence is welghty matter for this court.
It i then a simple matter to print off the data you have collected.
It s no simple matter starting a new business.
The rest of the meeting was taken up by routine ma ters.
I'd better broach the matter with my boss.
The matter will be raised of our next meeting.
Policeare treating the maiter o5 a murder enquiry.
In althe~ I don't have much experience in these matters.
Do I have any choice in the matter? on althe ~ Speak (0 your manager if you need help on this matter.
The incident is definitely a matter for the police.
Is amatter of concern 10 all of us.
We discussed the matter of whether or not to hire a bus.
Lef's concentrate on the matter in hand for nouw, and leaveother issues tilllater.
It didn't help matters that 1 had a terrible cold.
To make matters worse, my friend then lost her keys.
These things matter a lot to young children.
She could find a job.
It hardly mattered wha.
Somehow it didn't seem tomatter much any more.
It doesn’t matter about the mess.
It didn'tmatter to her that he was blind.
This varietyis easy togrow ard matures early.
The teenage years cover a period in which people mature physicaily and emotionally.
The cheese issmoked and then left to mature.
She had matured into a beautiful young woman.
She has shown great maturity in her behaviour this term.
These lotest paintings show how the artist hos really grown in maturity.
It can take years for these plonis to reach full ‘maturity.
The insects lay eggs when they opproach maturity.
She was badly mauled by a lion.
If you follow a few simplemaxims, your business should bea success.
Do not exceed the recommended maximum of three tablets a doy.
The temperature reached a moximum of 35°C yesterday.
In the exam, allow yourself @ maximum of 50 minutes per question.
The amount you have topay will be limited to.
He is using his talents to the maximum.
You can claim theallowance for a moximum of six months.
They fined her the maximum possible for the offence.
In 1662-3 he served as Lord Mayorof Landon.
He found his way through the complex maze of corridors.
She hadn't had a square meal or days.
The bar serves light meals.
Thanks for a delicious meal.
Hot meals are not availableafter 100'clock.
Thave to snatch meals when I can.
He wouldn't have asked her to supper f he didn't like her; she reasoned.
These verbs are often used with sround, out, over and round: Wemust have you over for dinner sometime.
Lef's goout for ameal.
He'soutto lunch witha client, stop for~ We stopped for tea at the Ritz.
Isometimes skip lunch if we're very busy.
We'll have supper ready for you.
Lunch is served from noon 1l 3.
Keep warm, warm up~ Tl be home late, so keep my dinner warm.
Dinner is provided in the superb hotel restaurant.
Breakfast's ready!” shouted Christine.
The family was aliways noisy at meal times.
Nobody spoke during supper: for~ What didyou havefor lunch? ~of abreakfast of pancakes and maple syrup mean adj.
That was a pretty mean trick.
He's rather mean when it comes tospending money on the children.
He's 50 mean (o his mother! with She's very ‘mean with her mone.
The context makes the meaning clear.
There's often a double meaning in jokes and riddles.
I'm sure there's no hidden meaning in what he says.
Historians are trying to decipher the meaning of the documents.
She assigns a meaning to s words they just didn't have.
Some of the symbols carry meaning and some just represent sounds.
The word ‘gay’ took on its modern meaning inthe 1960s.
In athe ~ ambiguity in the meaning of a phrase with afthe~[am using the word with itsoriginal meaning.
It is difficult for anon-Italion tograsp all the nuances of meaning.
She’s searching for the deeper meaning of life.
He found spiritual meaning through religion.
Her work no longer had any meaning for her.
After his death, she fel life had lost all meaning.
Falling in love gave meaning tohis life.
Young people con feel thot life is withoutmeaning.
The phrase has become almost meaningless.
War is famously ‘the continuation of policy by other means'.
We have no means of knowing how they will react.
My English teacher provided me with the mears to enjoy reading poetry.
The stone was lifted by means of a rope and pulley.
They cannot achieve thelr goal through legal means.
He saw his education merely as a means to an end.
There are ways andmeans of raising money.
Eligibility for the benefit was determined by a means test.
Private school fees are beyond the means of most peaple (= more than they can afford).
She finds it difficult to live within her means.
All our children have had the measles.
New security measures were implemented fo prevent further violence.
Implement, impose, introduce, take Special measures are being taken to protect the localwater supplies.
He poured me generous measure of whisky.
In largelsome measure His success was due in large measure to sour help.
Landed income was the true measure of the gentry.
Any type of data that could not be directly measured was rejected.
We need to ‘measure the room up for a new carpet.
You can ‘now measure its length more accurately.
She's being measured for her wedding outfit.
Cloth is measured in metres.
The policy's impact cannot be easily measured.
Theroomis about 15 metres square.
The new dock was 230 m long and 92 m broad.
The climate was several degrees warmer than it is now.
The National Park covers 3 000acres.
The sandy beach stretches for over four miles.
She weighed over ten stane.
Ittakes approximately 365 and a quarter days for the earth to revolve around the sun.
My car does 10miles to the litre.
They're 98p a dozen.
Apples are sold by the kilogram.
Killer whales are up 1o ten metres in length.
Glve your answer to the nearest metre.
Is it really possible to measure the skills of such jobs according to objective standards? ‘against The school's performance is measured against a strict set of criteria.
The policy's effectiveness cannot be ‘measured by numbersalone.
Success cannot be measured merely in termsof the size of your slary.
It is important to take precise measurements of the structure.
Objective measurement is difficult with such poor equipment.
That meat smells rotten.
Simmer the meat for 30 minutes until tender.
Shealuways buys the cheaper cuts of meat.
The animals donot hunt and rarely consume meat.
Fry the meat in a litle otive oil.
Turn the meat frequently (o seal it.
The meat has gone off.
I'm not a great meat eater.
Thesepies havea low meat content.
The oo locking mechanism doesn'twork.
The system provides a mechanism whereby information is channelled into the market.
The government is held accountable through the mechanism of regular general elections.
The body has defence mechanisms agoinst many diseases.
He is a major ‘medal hope for Britain.
Her medal hopes were dashed by injury.
The event was widely cavered by the mass media.
The local media reported rioting across the countrs.
Interest, publicity, reporting There was lat of media coverage of the wedding.
Sport has been turned into a series of media events.
The company is anxlous to play down the media hype.
She's very different from her media image.
French, International, UN, etc.
Unless management accepts mediation, thestrike willnever be resolved.
Te conflct ended through the ‘mediation of the United Nations.
Pilots undergo regular medicals.
He was accepted onta the courseafter passing the medicat.
She stopped the medication because f side effcts.
Hels on regular medication for hisjits.
Garlic was widely used in folk medicine.
She gave up general medicine to specialize in geriatric medicine.
In a meeting you can: address issues / matters / problems consider deal with debate discuss look atfinto tackle If you don't spend much time on an issue, you touch on the issue.
You usually make decisions at meetings.
After hours of negotiation, workers and management reached a compromise.
The environmental commission made a proposal for a new park in the city.
The shoreholders took a vote on the proposed merger.
The workers raised an objection to longer working hours.
This meeting is adjourned until next week.
The chairmon brought the meeting to a close by thonking all those who had attended.
The High Commissioner for Human Rights dedlared the meeting closed.
Technigues of deep meditation help peopleunder stress.
He stared outof the window in silent meditation.
The ‘novel is an extended meditation on ar, loveand loss.
Radio is an important communicationmedium in many countries.
The government communicates through the medium of television.
An optical disk is just another kind of electronic storage medium.
She used her novels asa medium for encouraging political debate.
Instruction (= a language used forteaching) English is the mediumaf instruction in many African countries.
We met up after school.
Man- ‘agement wilt meet with union representatives next week.
Imet up with my friends in town.
They were determined to meet the challenge head-on.
He had failed to meet his performance targets.
The caurse ls deslgned to meet the needs of young learners.
Ing Leanora met his goze without flinching.
Their eyes metacross the crouded room.
Management have called a joint meeting with staff and unions.
The society is holding Its An- ‘nual General Meeting in the canference roam next Monday.
We had endless meetings about the prablem.
The meeting seemed interminable.
The cammitee has called a meeting to discuss the president’s death.
T've got to chair a meeting tomorrou.
Healuays spoke as if he were addressing a pubLicmeeting.
It is unclear whether the meeting will go ahead as planned.
Journed for coffee at eleven.
The meeting broke up after a row over whether to allow cameras in.
The meeting closed ona sour note.
Themeeting voted 423-133 In fuvaur of a strike.
This meeting urgesthe company to reconsider Its decision ta close the Jactory.
The meeting expressed concern that the problem had still nat been addressed.
The meeting heard that twa workers had been sacked on the spot with noofficial reasan given.
The meeting dragged inta the early haurs of thenextday.
In althe~ I'm afraid Mrs Haley s in a meeting at themament.
Directors called a crisis ‘meeting over the future of the company.
Most of her songs have bold melody.
Subscriptions are cheaper for individual members.
He was apaid-up member of the Communist Party.
All members of staff will receive a pay rise.
I've becomeamember of our local sports club.
The virus then passes through the cell membrane.
Theygave him a watchasa memento of his timewith the company.
Thedirector will be presented with a memento for his long years of service.
The photos will be permanent memento of your wedding.
June, 2001 ~on A memo on the curriculum changes from the Hecd of Education.
She circulated a memoto the Staff.
She describes in her memoirs how she coped with her mother's death.
It was a truly memorable experlence.
Tiie holiday was memorable for the food.
The memorandum was dated 23 August, 2001.
In althe ~ Refer (o the terms set out in the company's memorandum.
The statue isa lasting memorialto those who died in the war.
The memorial stands on the village green.
His short-term ‘memory was damaged in the accident.
Bad spellers have aweak visual memory.
Secing your namein the ‘paper jogged my memory.
He recited the whole poem from memor.
Ing My abiding memory of our first meeting i of a girl too shy totalk.
In~of He planted some apple trees in memory of his wife.
Shop owners are struggling to combat themenace of armed robbery.
He's amenace (o society.
Where do you think you're going?” hesaid with quiet menace.
The scar down his face added to hisair of menace.
His voice was quiet and almost menacing.
He is suffering fromviral meningitis.
The eari estmention of the village is in a 16th-century manuscript.
My cousin deserves a mention for all his hard work.
His professor gets ‘@ mention in the acknowledgements.
I've heard no mention of ¢ salary increase this year.
At the very mention of his name, Kate started shaking with fright.
Just, previously, so for As already mentioned, the legislation does not consider low ‘Ppay as an acceptabie reason for turning doun a joh.
This aspect is discussed further by Crane, whom I mentioned earlier.
All the approaches mentioned so far are fuirly conventional.
He only mentioned his work in passing.
She did not specifically mention your name.
Although she didn't actually mention the move, I am sure that was in her mind.
Shedidn’t mention the econom in her speech.
Please don’t ‘mention this to Salls.
He avoided mentioning his family.
At this point, itisworth mentioning that many peaple who were adopted as babies have na desire to meet thelr biological parents.
In the example mentioned above, either method of construction could have been used, mentioned in dispatches Wounded in action, he was wice mentioned in dispatches.
Now hat you come to mentlon It he did say something about a ghost.
Many restaurants do a very reasonable set menu at lunchtime.
The chef was chalking the daily ‘specials on the menu board.
Passengers cre offered a daily choice of menu.
The companycarries a wide rangeof merchandise.
We bought ¢ ton of scnd * fromthe builders’ merchant.
They showed no mercyto their captives.
Aid agencies are making mercy flights into the flood region.
We'reat the mercy of the weather: without~ Theterrorists are completely without mercy.
The film has no artistic merit whatsoever.
Eachcaseshould be judged on its individual merits.
We need to assess the merits of both proposals before making our decision.
Films are given a rating of one to five stars according to merit, on~ Prizes are awarded entrelyon mertt.
The winners areranked inorder of merit.
Her hair was a tangled mess.
Fe's an emotional mess since his girlfviend left kim.
She felt she was making a terrible mess of herlife.
There was a s0ggy mess of porridge on the table.
The family sent a heartfelt message of thanks to eversone who helped.
He's not here—-T'l1 poss on the message.
There was message about the meeting.
Are there any messages for me? ~from a urgent message from your mother ~of They sent messages of hope to prisoners of war: ~to The message 1was (o your sister; not you.
The president toured the country spreading the message of nationalunity.
The bomb left a pile of jogged glass and twisted metal.
The doors are made of metal.
Heusesthemetaphor of fireto represent hatred.
This vale of tears’ is a metaphor for the human condition.
The token meter is aperated by tokens costing £1 or £5.
The taxi waited, its motor running, the meter ticking cway.
Involve sth This method involves cutting a very thin slice from the object.
This isthe best method of settling such arguments.
John Peel is back behind the ‘microphone for a new series.
Intervieweesare placed in front of the microphone and grilled.
Place the specimen on & microscopeslide.
Hesettled into comyjortable middle age.
In~ Hemellowed in middleage.
Inta middle age She had her first child well into middleage.
She felt middle-aged and dull.
Some factories have cut out the middleman and sell thelr products directly to customers.
The firm sells through a middleman because it does not have its own sales force.
Heacts as 'middleman for companies seeking contracts abroad.
The church clock struck midnight.
Downstairs in the hall, midnight struck.
On the stroke of midnight, Prince Charming turned back into a rat.
Even the smell of oranges can trigger his migraine.
Towards the end of the week the weather turned very mild.
The late summer air was surprisingly mild.
The infection seems quite mild, 50 she should be better soon.
His voice was deceptively mild.
Fell-runners who are out to win can cover the three miles in just over 15 minutes.
Altogether on the trip we clocked up over 1 800 miles.
The police stopped them doing 100 miles per kour on the motorway.
Car for sale:one careful owner, low mileage.
Your car hire costs include unlimitedmileage.
Therewas norecord of the mileage the car had done.
The company gives a generous mileage allowance.
The film proved to be a milestone in the history of cinema.
French technology militant adj.
The women on the march were highly militant.
In Jwasn't surprised to learn that he'd served in the military.
Theanarchists started to form volunieer militias.
They've stopped elivering milk in our area.
She expressed some milk so her husband could dothe nightfeeding.
The river was ‘harnessed to drive many mills.
Themillcon be seen grindingcorn.
She could mimic her father perfectly.
Our subconsclous mind tries to protect us.
Try fo keep an open mind until you've heard ail the facs.
Bear in mind the age of the vehicie when assessing Its value.
Here are some important points to keep inmind.
Pm sorry forgot your birthday—it completely stipped my mind.
Ifs been Ppreying on my mind ever since it happened.
His mind raced, irying to think of a way out of the situation.
Her mind wasstillreeling from the shock.
You've been in my mind a lot lately.
Il keep what you sy in mind.
Tve got a lot on mymindat the moment.
The probiem was always at the back of my mind.
Your mind Try to keep sajety in the forefront of your mind.
He's in rather a negative frame of mind.
What kind of party doyou have in mind?in the recesses of your mind It was Something she had never imagined, not even in the deepest recesses of her mind.
There was absolutely no doubt in my mind that he was guilty.
Their own problems of course remained uppermost intheir mins.
Idon't mind at all elling people my ge.
Nobody really minded muchabout what happened to them.
His parents didn’t seem to ‘mind that he dropped out of university.
Udown/In At 14, he went dotwn the mines.
At its peak, the mine produced 5 000 tons of oal a day.
The troops are slowly clearing the mines.
Suggesting changes to the benefits system would be a political minefield.
You will irst have to pick your way through the minefield of professional advice.
Taxis a minefield for theunwary.
The prince mingled freely with the crowd.
Shefelt fear mingled with excitement.
Twofire crews managed to keep damage to a minimun.
The sun's temperature reached a minimum in the summer f 1961.
Candidates must have afirstdegreeata minimum.
We tried to keep costs down to a minimum.
He's always done the minimum possible to pass his exams.
Local authorities should submit schemes (o the relevant minister for approval.
He served briefly as prime minister from 1920 to 1921.
Ministers are accountable to Parliament.
The forelgnminister intervened with disastrousresults.
Arts ~of Anew minister of defence had been appointed.
Agriculture, Defence, Education, Environment, Finance, Foreign (Affairs), Health, Interr, Justice, Transport, etc.
He assumed direct controlof key ministries.
The scheme was approved by the Ministry of Housing.
This is a very minor aperation and there is very little risk involved.
Thar's a relatively minor matter.
You are definitely amorg the minority.
We are in the minority on this issue.
Only a tiny minority of holidays areaffected.
The minutes ticked by and stillnothing happened.
After twenty minutes I started to get worried.
We waited for ten minutes and then left.
Don't legue everything fll the last minute.
This will only take a minute.
Tll be with you in a minute, ship sank within minutes.
Tell him Iwantto see him the minute he arrives.
The letter’s survival is something of aminor miracle.
Don’t expect this ‘medicine to work miracles.
By amiracle she escaped serious injury.
Something quite miraculous happened.
Perhaps we areall just chasing amirage.
He iwatched them through a two-way mirror.
We hung a mirror over the fireplace.
Art can be seen as a mirror image of society.
The trends here closety mirror those tn America.
The shock was mirroredon her face.
The government has seriously miscalculated the economic effect of this policy.
Her first pregnancy ended in miscarrioge.
Smoking during preg- ‘nancy increases the risk of miscarriage.
Don't get up to any mischief while we're out.
We hope the programme will dispel certain misconceptions aboul the disease.
She was sacked last year for gross miscondct.
The directorsalldeny financial misconduct.
Staff can losetheir jobs onlyon grounds of professional misconduct.
Noteat CRIME (for more vorbs) miserable adj.
We got home feeling tired and miserable.
This phobia can cause untold misery for the sufferer.
Her misery was made complete when she wos separated from her children.
In, endure, feel, live in, sink into, suffer He was too wrapped in misery lo reply.
The money brought him nothing but misery.
War has now added to the misery of these starving people.
The giant-killers heaped more misery on the home team.
In the end we asked the vet to pul the poor creature out of its misery (= Kill it humanely).
Oh, put her out of her misery—tell her who won.
At least we were spared the misery of having todo it all again.
Unfortunately their plan misfired badly.
The expedition was dogged by misfortune.
Jfortune tosharea room with someone who snored loudly.
Misfortune struck before they had even left the harbour.
He is the rudest man it ‘hasever been my misfortune to meet.
She shared my misgivings about the planned weekend.
In spite of sb's ~ He agreed, despite his ‘misgivings.
She hod serious misgivings about the whole affair, but they proved unfounded.
He had considerable misgivings at the prospect of moving jobs.
Their approach to the problem is fundamentally misguided.
The group suffered an extroordinary ‘series of minor mishaps.
I'm afraid your son had aslightmishap in the playground.
The parents kad been misinformed about theincident.
It became clear that the general had been badly misinformed.
The public have been fed misinformation about the health risks.
Irealized that what I'd said could bemisinterpreted ascriticism.
Quanities are easily misjudged.
She was accused of deliberately misleading Parliament.
They were naive and easily misled.
Statistics taken on their own are liable tomislead.
Parliament has been totally misled about this affai.
Into The company misled hundreds of people intoinvesting their money unwisely.
Her statement was deliberately misleading.
Some of the information was dan- ‘gerously misieading.
The prison service has been badly mismanaged in recent years.
An inbestigation ‘uncovered mismanagement and a lack of proper financial controls.
The project collapsed through financialmismanagement.
Her confidence in him was entirely misplaced.
His aptimism proved sadly misplaced.
Think carefully about what you say: your views could be easily misrepresented by the press.
Ecstasy Is widely misrepresented as a saft drug.
The plane crashed, narrowly missing a hotel.
The bullet missed his head by only a few inches.
He completely missed the point of what Twas saying.
Your Jather misses you dreadfully.
Istill miss her a lot.
Allof the missiles missed their farget.
They pelted her with eggs and various other missiles.
It was six hours before the sea ‘men were discovered missing.
The study of ‘housework as work is a topic entirely missing from sociology.
Thefile was missing from its place.
Our mission accomplisked, we headed for home.
The captain instructed them to abort the mission.
Their mission ended in failure.
Hewasoftenout of theafficeon various ‘missions.
Many regard histask as ‘mission impossible.
The USis sending a trademission to China.
He's been an several Shuttle missions over the last decade.
The spacecraft lost contact with mission contral.
He now has a mission in life: to expand the horizons of those around him.
You can tell by the determined way he talks that he is @ man with a mission.
He argued the case Jfor reorgantzation with missionary zeal.
Hespent I5years asamissionary in Africa.
White There was a red mist in front of his eyes.
In, be wreathed In The harbour was covered in a thick mist.
The little town had vanished in the mist.
Morris dancing are lost tn the mists of time.
When the mist comes down it comes quickly and covers everything.
The mist had cleared by mid-morning.
Early morning mist still clung to the hollous.
Infinto the~ It was hard to make out the path in the mist.
The cottage was scarcely visible through the mist.
It Isa great mistake to assume that your chitdren will agree with you.
This dress was an expensive mistake.
The company has learned from its past mistakes.
Don't make the same mistakes as1did.
Ordinary people are paying for the government's mistakes.
An unwary observer could easily mistake thisconstellation for a comet.
You can't mistake him.
There was no mistaking the admiration in his eyes.
The king kepta string of mistresses.
Tliere is suspicion and mistrust between immigrants and the police.
The incident has increased workers' mistrust in the management.
His experience left him with a mistrust of banks.
Corruption creates an climate of mistrust towards authority.
My concern for their well-being was misunderstood as interference.
Somehow a misunderstanding arose.
There was considerable misunderstand ing about the aim of the project.
There must have been some misunderstanding between the minister ‘and his secretary.
The oversimplification results in the possibility of misunderstanding by the reader.
Leave no scope for misunderstandings of any type.
He was sacked for computer misuse.
He had grossly misused his power: PURASES widely misused ‘Marketing' is a widely misused word in the book business.
The college has a broad mix of students.
Mix all the ingredients together thoroughly.
When the rice is cooked, gently mix in alltheother ingredients.
Mixyellow with blue to make green.
Whites and blacks mixed freely at dance halls and clubs.
They had attended university together and often mixed socialls.
Shemixed happily with theother children.
In his world-view, art and religions were inextricably mixed.
The cloth is made from a mixture of linen and cotton.
Pour the cake mixture into the tin.
The mixture contains some ingredients that are difficult to find.
With a~ He looked at me with a mixture of omazement and horror.
The pond contains a mixture of goldfish and carp.
With a~ He staggered about ten yards and fell doun withamoan.
In He mooned in despair: with She was still conscious and was moaning loudly with pain.
They kept moaning on about their illnesses.
What are you moaning about now? at My parents moan at me if I'm home late.
The unuilling children climbed into the bus, moaning and groaning.
Babies start to get mobile aroundtheage of eight months.
The barbecue isfully mobil.
She remained fairly mobile despite her disabilities.
Education was the key to upword social mobilits.
She has limited mobility in herarms.
They successfully mobilized public opinionagainst him.
Too scary for you? he mocked softly.
The piay subtly mocks the conventions of courtly love.
He mocked at her hopes of stardom.
She mocked him with her smile.
Try using some other mode of organization.
He had no intention of changing his mode of attire.
Switch from ‘receive’ mode to'transmit’ mode.
The machine is in its ‘suspend’ mode.
Their main mode of subsistence is hunting.
She madea fantastic claymodelof her dog.
They're recalling their new model for modificationsto the engine.
She wasa model of restraint.
Successfulstate schools must be used as models for the rest.
Noteat 105 Sfor painting, etc.
The model sits for mefor threehours every day.
On/upon Thissystem s closely modelled uponone usedin French hospitals.
Data is transmitted via a modem link 1o the central office.
Via (a/the) ~ You can send the iles to us on disk or via modem.
Special page at COMPUTER moderate ad).
The government called Jfor greater moderation on the partof the unions.
Moderation isthekeyto good health.
In~ Drinking alcohol is all right in moderation.
Always act with moderation.
She would be falsely modest not to acknowledge that she ‘had come a very long way since those early days.
He is modest about his achievements.
Our requirements seem fairly modest.
He is tooking toimproveon his admittedty modest achicvements sofar.
She accepted their congratulations with becoming modesty.
Modesty for bade me from ‘mentioning that my novel had been published.
She spoke with characteristic modesty.
The design requires considerable modification.
The original plon had undergone fairly extensive modifications.
Without~ These bikes are designed for racing and cannot be used on the rood without modfication.
We need to make a few modifications to the proposals.
You may need to ‘modify your plans a lttle.
These ideas are still used today, though in a slightly modified form.
I'm doing two optional modules.
The course materialis divided intofour modules.
Her skin felt moist and feverish.
Beth's dark eyes grew moist as she kissed ‘her son.
Keep the atmosphere in your ‘greenhouse lightly moist throughout the spring.
His fingers were becoming moist with sweat.
Iniup) Wind is caused by the sun drawing up moisture from the earth.
Tiles sip ‘moisture penetrating your walls.
They suspected that @ mole had beenplanted in the organization.
For one heart-stopping moment, we thought she was going to fall.
That was a bad moment in my life.
Jelt at home here from the very moment I arrived.
We hate reached a critical moment in the regotlations.
Her finest moment came when she won Wimbledon.
She let the neus slip by mistake, in an unguarded moment.
The fecling only losted a moment.
This wor't take a moment.
I'm afraid—I'm terribly busy.
Victory was sweet, and he wanted to savour every moment.
He's in @ ‘bad mood today—you need to chooseyour moment carefulIy.
Imanaged to capture the moment on film.
Themoment hadfinalIy come 0 makea move.
He opened his mouth tosay e loved her; but the moment passed.
After @ moment we followed him.
At that very momient the telephone ang.
He might wake up at any momen.
She paused for a moment.
T'l be back in a moment.
It was the proudest moment of my entire Iife.
There was a moment of silence.
Could you wait a few mo- ‘ments?a moment ago He was here just a moment ago.
Lstood there for a moment or tuwo.
There’s never a dull moment in thisjob.
Shegave fresh momentum to the campaign.
The campaign for change now has considerable momentum.
The car gathered momentum as it rolled doun the hill.
The team has lost momentum in recent uceks.
Their momentum has gone, and they feel they cannot fight any longer.
The country still has a strong monarchy.
He entered a monastery as a young man.
You can stayat the monasters.
He lived ina monastery for most of his life.
There is bigmoney in golf for the top players.
Hestarted stealing asa way of making easy money.
I'don’t know how much spending money to take on holiday.
The collection box was full of coins and paper money.
He hoped the scheme would brirg in quitea bit of money.
Sorne people were in the street collecting money for charity.
I'll have to get some more money from somewhere.
She lost lof of money at the casino.
We ran out of money and had to come home early.
He squandered his money on gambling and drink.
We're trying to set some money asidefor a newcar.
Shestashed the money away in the bank.
They sensibly invested their prizemoney rather than spending it.
All their money was tied up in long-term investments.
He managed (o persuade ‘his friend to put up the money for the venture.
I'll pay the ‘money back next week, I promise.
The shop was unuwilling to refund my money.
They owe lots of people money.
French ‘money on the plane.
The bookmaker was quite happy to take his money.
These cars costquite a lot of money.
I'be worth That painting is worth a lot of money.
We changed our money into dollars at theairport.
He was charged with laundering money.
Money for the extension to the gallery came from the sale of old exhibits.
Idon't know where all the money goes! > All his money went on drink.
Most of the money went to pay Jor the food and drink.
In She had two children to ‘support and no money coming in.
He made a fortune dealing on the money markets.
The boat trip lasts three hours, so you certainly get your money's worth.
He stopped at the betting shop to put money on a horse.
He sank most of his money into his struggling business.
He thinks he can make friends by throwing his money around.
Te security staff can see all the outside of the building on their CCTV manitors.
The heart ‘monitor shows the strength of your pulse.
Television advertising is strictly monitored.
We will now be able to ‘monitor its progress more closely.
The authorities will continue to monitor the situation.
The workers are constantly monitored for exposure toradiation.
The problem was discovered during routine monitoring.
Into, launch inta, recite She delivered her monologue in deadpan voice.
She launched into a long monologue ‘about how wonderful the compary was.
He went straight into ¢ rambling monologue on the state of the country.
The company has avirtual monopoly tn world markets.
This Actof Parliament guaranteed solicitors a monopoly on particular legal services.
The company was able toexploit its monopoly position.
One company holds a monopoly of the raw materials.
The company lost its monopoly on exporting beer to India.
Travelling is much more difficult during themonsoon.
The tabloid papers labelled him ‘an evil sex monster'.
Frankenstein's monsters, ‘beyond the controlor influence of their leaders.
The government has created a bureaucratic monster.
She'll be 40 this coming September (of) lastnext'that/this year (of) the/this coming year the monthsfweeks/year to~ between~and~ Inthe year to June, sales were ‘The hotel is closed betuween up 12% ona year ago.
He spent August abroad.
The refurbishment should be ~arrive, come (written) completed by December: November came with especially come~ nasty fog.
January passed into February ‘September (= when September comes).
The museum attracted 2 000visitors ‘The construction work began in @ misty December morning during March.
May of last year: ~(s) editlonfissue for~ carly, late, mi ‘Hisarticle will appear in Moy's The congress is planned for ‘The strike began in late March.
March to November: firstlatter/second half of~ ~coup, demonstration, election, in~ The irst half of January was meeting, referendum, revolution, We're getting married in April.
Theparty isto boycott the June ‘She has played only four games the poriod~ elections.
November Throughout the period November about, around~ throughout~ to February flocks of 5000r moreare We will write to you again around The freezing weather continued regularly present.
The show runs until theend of after June.
The past few months have been hectic.
Winning storles will be published in the magazine in future months.
This has been a record month for sales.
He spent about a month decorating the house.
It took months to find anather job.
The festival is olways held in the mont of Ma.
It ‘hasn't rained for months.
We're getting married ina month/in a month’s time.
I've been working on the illustration for over a month.
The months of Julyand Augustare the hottest.
Our money’s usually running low by this time of the month.
The new boat Isa ftting monumenttothe crew members who lost their lives.
The tower stands as a monument to the invosion of the islond.
Monuments to the former leader were all pulled down.
The monumenl will stand just inside the cathedral.
Some of the town’s Roman monuments st survive.
Jovial She was not in the best of moods.
The sacked workers were in defiant mood astheyentered the tribunal.
It was Christmas and everyone was in Jestive mood.
Choose colours to ‘match your mood.
The weather seemed {0 reflect his sombre mood.
Iift lighten His mood lifted as heconcentrated on his driving.
After the accident he suffered violentmood swings.
Instantly hefelt her change of mood.
The moon had almost set and the night was now dark.
Theroad shonejrastily under thefull moon.
They had to work by thelight of themoon.
The fields were bathed in bright moonlight that ‘night.
His helmet glinted in the moonlight.
The castle looks fantastic by moonlight.
Trie leaves were silver in the moonlighi.
We got lost an the moors.
During the storm several of our boats were torn Jrom their moorings.
The crawds cheered as the great ship stipped her moorings and slid out into the Atlantic.
There are clear morals 0 be drawn from thefailureaf these companies.
Thereis aclearmoral to all this.
He fas absolutely no morals.
She had tried her best to instil morals into her daughters.
Morale is very high in the school.
These unfortunate incidents sapped both our morale and our resources.
The bonus helped maintain ‘moraleamong thesstaff.
Mail from home is a great ‘morale booster for our soldiers.
Moraleamong nurses s at rock bottom.
She criticized politicians’ standards of personal marality.
The side of the mountain appeared pink in the early morning light.
The morning dawned bright and sunny.
As the morning wore on he became more and maretired.
Towards morning the snow turned to rain.
Il see (o it first thing in the morning.
He didn't even say ‘Good morning’.
Icouldn't eat another morsel.
Poor hyglene led to high mortality among children.
Mortality among immigrant groups was higher than average.
Their troops werearmed with mortars and machine guns.
The occasional mortar burstnear our truck.
We were under constant mrtar fire.
Banks often offer their emploees cheap mortgages.
We've got a big mortgage.
They were having trouble getting a mortgage.
He didn’t earn enough to support his family and pay the mortgage.
There are penalties if you want to redeem your mortgage arty.
In arrears with, fall behind with, get behind with They were in arrears with their mortgage, so their home was repossessed.
They were struggling to keep up with their mortgage re payments.
He swatted the mosquito witha newspaper.
This strain of mosquito carries malaria and yellow fever.
Her distraught mother had spent all night waiting by the phone.
Alienation is a central motif in her novels.
He made little flapping ‘motions with his arms.
The insects are stirred into motion by the ‘heat of the sun.
Do ot open the door when the train s inmotion.
The motion was put to the conference and fully debated.
The Opposition tabled a motion calling for the prime minister’s resignation.
The motion will be debated later today.
Themotion was passed by 165v0tes t0 7.
The motion was defeated by 51 votes to 43.
He proposed a ‘motion of no confidence in the government.
The flag hung motionless on its pole.
The attack was racially motivated.
Manyof the boys havevery poor motivation.
By this time the children ad lost all their motivation for writing poetry.
There seemed to be noclear motivefor the attack.
T'd say he had a very strong motive for wanting her dead.
Hewas acting from the highest motives when e offered her money.
She was not sure what his underlying motives were.
Weglve aid foother countries with mixed motives.
Inspired by, have She knew that he was inspired by base motives.
The police arestilltrying to establish a motivefor the attack.
He was suspicious of her motives in inviting him into the house.
She should examine her motives for marrying him.
However you explain the motives behind his actions, ‘hewasstill wrong.
What was their motive in setting fire to the butlding?~ behind There is no doubt about the motive behind it all.
There may bea hidden motive for his departure.
He left the motor running.
He's learning to ride 6 motorcycle.
The motorbike skidded and I came off it.
He was sitting on his motorbike.
She climbed onto the back of my motorbike.
Five people have been Killed in @ motoruwoy pile-up.
He sang as he rattled doun the motorwas.
Surfers have a motto—Life's a beach and then you die'.
He was the first to coin the motto*Make Love, Not War'.
Let's use that s our matto.
The statues werecast in clay maulds.
Sheis clearly from a different mauld from her team mate.
He doesn't fit into the usual mould of head teachers.
Breaking the traditional mould of local polifics isnot going to be easy.
His Drother came from a different mauld.
The biscuits were covered in green mould.
The church stands on @ high mound Justoutside the village.
Election fever is mounting hourly.
The cost quickly mounts up.
The prinis were beautifully mounted.
The switch is mounted directly on theuwall.
Thediamond is mounted in gold.
The specimens were carefully mounted on slides.
The surrounding mountains make the city difficult to evacuate.
We enjoy walking in the mountains.
The mountains ere rise to well over 2 000m.
The mountains fall to the east (o the flat expanse of the plateau.
Towering mountains surrounded thevillage.
The eorth tremor made the mountains shake.
We crossed the rugged mauntain_ heights.
The invading army could only penetrate the mountain barrier at one point.
She arranged to meet the athers halfluay up themountain.
This typeaf goat lives highup in the mountains.
They revealed a solution to reduce Europe's butter mountain.
He was in deep mourning for his dead wife.
In~ She was still in full mourning six months after her son’s death.
She crept upstairs, as quietasamouse.
Some of these mouse click short cuts are worth learning.
Move thecursor around the screen with themouse.
Her fiancé sported a neat ginger moustache.
He's trying to grow a moustache.
An enormous black moustache drooped over his mouth.
His grey ‘moustache bristled with importance.
He covered his ‘mouth to hide his yawn.
He coughed as the blood filled his mouth.
The dog was foaming at the ‘mouth and near death.
Our mouths dropped open in surprise.
His mouth compressed into a thin, hard line.
Get out” she shouted, her mouth contorted by emotion.
Her mouth suddenly set in a determined line.
Her mouth curved into a'smile.
His mouth fted in a wry smile.
My mouth started watering when I smelled the food.
There were lines of tension about his mouth.
She put her hand over her mouth to stifl the cough.
There was blood trickling from the corner of his mouth.
The corners of her mouth turned up in aslight smile.
Don’t alk with your mouth full! a mouth to feed Twins would mean two extra mouths to feed.
He told the story between mouthfuls.
She answered through a mouthful of cake.
He put his hard aver the mouthpiece ard called his wife to the phone.
The media is controlled by the state and acts asa mouthpiece or the ruling party.
She wondered whether she had made the right move in telling the truth.
One false move could lead to war.
The company was put up for sale yesterday in @ shock move by management.
Getting a job in advertising was a good career move.
The talks represented the firstsignificant move towards peace.
The manage- ‘ment has made no move to settle the strike.
The new legislation signalled a move away from state involvement in telecommunicatiors.
They are waiting for the results of the apinion polls before deciding their next move.
The government ‘announced its move to ban smoking in public spaces.
Moves are afoot to increase car insurance premiums.
The move reflects a change in approach to research.
In a move which surprised commentators, the president sacked several cabinet ministers.
Altough the new environmental regulations are flawed, they represent ‘@ move in the right direction (= they do imprave the currentsituation).
We should make a move (= leave) —it'sreally late.
She madea move towards the door: PHRASES be/keep (sb/sth) on the move His career asa petroleurn engineer has kept him on the move (= Kept him moving sbout from place (o place).
She made no move as the tion sniffed at the tent.
The cubs followed their mother an the hunt, watching her every mave.
His new job uwas a sideways move rather thana promation.
She learned all the chess moves when she was four.
The eyes of predators are highly sensitive to the slighlest movement.
She mounted the horse in ane easy mavement.
The refrigerator unit has rubber wheels for easy ‘mavement.
The army surrounded the town ina pincer movement.
He made a slight movement with his right hand.
Hydraulic jacks under the machine produce the movement.
As infants grow they became better able to direct their own movements.
The striking farmers threatened to prevent movement of goods across the country.
She sensed a movement in the dark be- ‘neath thestairs.
They are monitoring the movement of animals in and out of the country.
The police are following the suspect's movements very closely.
The police have traced her movements to thetime of her death.
Some movement in the butlding will cccur as It settles into the subsoil.
Yyour eye A movement caught his eye ir the tangled undergrowth.
She kicked down the door in one swiftmovement.
Recently there’s been a ‘movement (= a change in attitude) away from tinned food towards fresh food.
Sreedom of movement for all citizens.
His music has real sense of movement.
Both architects were part of the Modern Movement.
She started a movement for agriculturai reJform.
The ‘movement emerged out of concern for human rights abuses.
The movement ‘gained strength during the 1970s.
The student movementreached its peak in 1968.
He launched a movement for children's rights.
Thereisacellosola in the second movernent.
We watched a home movie of my second birthday party.
I'd never go to a movie alone.
The former footballer 15 now mixing with movie people in Hollywood.
Castro noun moving adj.
Ifound the story intensely moving.
Her boots were caked in mud.
Several cars got bogged down in the mud.
Wet mud oozed up between their loes.
The mud in the dried-up river bed hed cracked.
She fell in the mud.
We Squelched through the mud.
The judge mode a muddleof the case.
In a~ The house was in a awful muddle by the time the children left.
There was a bureaucratic muddle over his appointment.
Her ideas are sightly muddied.
Don’t get your shoes muddy! > The rain had made the foot- ‘ball pitch extremely muds.
Weall got a bit muddy and wet.
Shefilled her mug with orange juice.
He poureda mug of tea.
Cralg got up and poured himself a mug of soup.
She poured hot water into the mug.
He drank a mug of coffee and left.
We drank champagne from tin mugs.
Heran his finger around the rim of the mug.
They travelled across the mountains by mule.
Just imagine all the problems we've been having, mulfiplied a thousandJold.
Ppeople, just multiply up the quantities.
The group Is oimed at new mums with young bobles.
The catacted as a surrogate mum to the chicks.
She mumbled something into her pillow.
George mumbled incoherently to himself mumps noun = Special page at ILLNESS mundane adj.
He vowed 1o Guenge his brother's murder.
Her latest novel is a gripping murder mysters.
The ‘boy was brutally murdered.
They were murdered in cold blood.
She was arrested and charged with murdering the two children.
He was found murdered in the cemetery.
He protested his innocence and promised to help police track down the real murderer.
The murderer has struck again.
Kill sb © PHRASES the Identity of the murderer The identity of ‘her murderer has not et been reveoled.
The oboe plays the main theme.
My sister is learning the French horn.
He studied piano at the Royal College of Music.
My fother took up the trumpet in his retirement.
She dropped/gove up the violin when she was fifteen.
That was Miles Dovis on trumpet.
James Levine canducts the orchestra of the Metropolitan Opero in New York the Scottish Symphony Orchestro, led by Elizabeth Leighton My sister has taken up the tuba.
In a~She answered in a low murmur with a~ He took the mug of coffee with a murmur of thanks.
They did as they were told, without a murmur.
Tve been, he murmured softly.
Mmm, * she murmured appreciatively.
She heard him murmur something under his breath.
He flexed his muscles, then set off to run.
Learn how to relax tense muscles.
Ilaughed so hard I atmost pulled a musscle.
His muscles rippled beneath his Tshirt as he worked.
The muscles in myface tensed.
The museum houses a fine collection of textiles.
Al the planes are museum pieces.
Chineseceramics atthe Ashmolean Museum In althe ~ There's a gift shop in the museum.
I'll have the gariic mushrooms for a starter.
They went into the woods to pick wild mushrooms.
Stice the mushrooms and.
The soft background music made her feel sleepy.
Heavy music thundered from the basement.
Appropriate period music can be played on visits toa historic building.
Listening to music Is a great way orelax.
We love to make music as a family.
Putiset sth to Schubert set several poems by Goethe to music.
With the guidance of the conductor; an orchestra creates music and harmonies.
The city has produced a lot of good music.
Into, enjoy, like, love She's really inio rock music.
He got into music (= became involved in the music business) by chance.
Calypso music played fointly in the distance.
She is a rising star in the music world.
The album has been praised in the music press.
The band are number one in the music _charts.
We bought a new television and music centre at theweekend.
In time to (the) music They did their exercises in time to the music.
Scottish musicand song the sound of music The sound of pop music drifted through the open windouw.
In music Her taste in music was wide.
Hemade up the words and music for the song.
Put your music on the musicstand.
You have 10 be a very dedicated musician to get 1o the top.
She had toured as a backing musician for rock star.
Add some hot English mustard.
Spread the bread thinly with mustard.
Mix together themustard and olive oil.
The protein contained a mutation.
The genetic material has suffered a mutation.
Mutations were introduced ‘inthe region using various technigues.
These cells carry a mutation affecting the prevention mechanism.
Their reaction to the news was somewhat muted.
He leda military mutiny against the senior generals.
Helen began muttering darkly about hospitals.
British visitors were heard to mutter that it would not ‘have happened in Frankfurt.
How the disease started is one of medicine’s great mysteries.
She was a total mystery to ~him despite their long association.
Her blue eyes had a cortain mysters.
He is the author of several murder mysteries.
How these insects actually communicate presents something of amystery.
It was easy to believe that the tiny hamlet held some great mystery.
The whole incident was shrouded in mysters.
Air travel has lost much of its mystery.
The police are close to soluing the mystery of the missing murder weapon.
The witness could shed no light on the mystery of the deceased's idenity.
Her poetry attempts to penetrate the dark mystery of death.
The mysiery deepened when the police’s only suspect was found murdered.
Their suspect was a mystery man: a quiet, happily married man with no en emies.
There's a bit of a mystery about this child.
It remains a mystery as to where he was buried.
My sister is a complete mystery to me.
Wearing dark glasses gives himanair of mysters.
Modern weather forecasts try to take themystery out of meteorologs.
She was genuinely ‘mystified by her success.
Christian, Greek, Norse, Roman, etc.
There is a great myth that all sports players are stupid.
Tre battle has become part of national myth.
The propaganda of both sides relies heavily on historical myth.
Propaganda has turned the Jformer president into a herofc myth.
The film tears down the cosy myths about fair play in war.
Peopie’s fuith in the Emperor was based on the myth that he was infallible.
The ‘myth persists that men are more intelligent than women.
Contrary to popular myth, women are not worse drivers than men.
Stories about ghosts in the cathedral have eniered the mythology of the fouwn.
She has created her own mythology in the books.
He screamed asshedug her nails into his shoulders.
There wasdirt under his nafls.
She wore red nailvarnish.
He regarded the move as politically naive.
Never had e felt so completely naked.
He lay naked on the bed.
She quickly stripped naked.
She had been left naked and alone.
She realized with a shock that she was stark naked.
His full name was William Augustus Grove.
She insisted on being called by her full name *Clementia’ rather than the pet name ‘Clemmey'.
The account is in joint names.
Smith’ is a very comman family name.
The village of Low Cotton takes its name from the Old English persanal name ‘Catta’.
George Eliot was a ‘penname; her real name was Mary Ann Evans.
The Julian calendar was introduced by Julius Caesar and hence carries his name.
The island is more commonly knawn by the name *Krakatoa’.
He goes by the name of Jonno.
Sheuses a different name in her professional life.
The Brady bill acquired its name from its bestknown sponsor, James Brady.
She decided to keep her maiden name for professional purposes.
He wanted an_heir to carry on the family name.
Immortalize His name was immortalized in 1992 when he scared three goals in the space of five minutes.
She was given the name Maria, after her grandmother.
Detectives belizve that a hitman was sent tosilence the witness before he could name names (= give evidence to the court/police).
Please call me by my first ‘name.
Somebody called out her name from below.
We cannot mention the suspect’s name for legal reasons.
He invoked the nameof Freud in support of hisargument.
Tve heard that name mentioned before.
They put his name forward (= chose him) as one of the five candidates for the post.
As the name implies, Oxford was the place at which oxen could fard the river.
Does that name mean anything to you (~do you recognize it)?" ‘Yes, itdoes ringa bell (= itis familiar).
The head teacher knows every child in the school by name.
Tom Rees in sbisth's~ The tickets were booked in the name of McLean.
Iarrest you in the name (= on tho authority) of the faw.
The room was booked under (= using) a false name.
The invading Franks gave their name (o the country in which they settled.
She has become a big name in documentary photography.
He made his ‘name writing travel baoks.
Thearea gota bad name after a series of nasty murders.
They tried to protect the good name of the college.
This kind of behaviour gives students a bad name.
They are big name in the world of rock music.
The present Kew Biridge was oponed by King Edward VI and s orrectly named ‘King Edward Bridge'.
She was taken on as a nanny to their two small children.
If you have difficulty sleeping at night, avoid taking catnaps during the day.
She dabbed fer ‘mouth with her table napkin.
He tucked his ‘napkin under hischin.
In He has been arrested for trading in narcotics.
The book is writ ten in the sile of first-person narrative.
Interrupt The author interrupts her narrative to tell us that the idea for-the book had not been well received.
The river narrows a little here.
The gap betuween the two parties narrowed sharply in the days before the election.
Though her eves narrowed fractionally, shemade nocomment.
The blueeses narrowed thoughtfully.
Her eyes narrowed against the sun.
His eyes ‘narrowed toslits.
His eves narrowed with suspicion.
The pass gets quite narrow towards the east.
He made it all ‘sound very nasty.
Things could turn nasty (= dangerous) if we’re not careful.
She was nasty about everyone.
Kevin ‘seems to enjoy being nasty to his sisters.
The entire nation mourned her death.
France was host nation for the 1998 World Cup.
They wanted 1 create a new nation.
The fight against terrorism seemed to unitethe nation.
The biggest task of the gouernment was to address national unity and nation building.
They are nation of food lovers.
They hoped that the exhibition would enhance the culturallifeof the nation.
The new economic policies were i the best interests of the nation at large.
He ‘has dual British and South African nationalits.
She is hoping fo adopt Australian ‘nationality.
About 30 nationalities were represented at the tournament.
He accused them of discrimination on the grounds of nationality.
All the ibres arenatural.
If's only natural that she should feel upset.
Mother Mother Nature had served up some terrible weather for their cruise.
He belicved in spending half an hour each day to relax and commuune with nature.
We built our house in thecountry because we wanted to get back (= be close) (o nature.
Nature had endowed her with exceptional vitality.
If's unlikely that this gully was produced by nature.
In~ We apprectate beauty in nature.
His love of nature was expressed through ‘hiswildlife paintings.
I'm not clear about the exact nature of their relationship.
People are always taking advan1age of her good nature (= her kindness).
Ifs ‘only human nature to want more money.
Because of the detailed nature of the work, I have to use a very fine brush.
They define sexual harassment as unwanted conduct of a sexual nature.
Their problems are of an economic nature.
He has an inguisitive nature.
The parties would not reveal the exact nature of the dispute.
The gentle lower slopes belie the true nature of the mountain.
It was against his nature (o tell lies.
This new information does not change the nature of our findings.
It is important to define the nature of the problem.
His theory provides a remarkable insight into the nature of the British constitution.
The method employed will depend on the nature of the task.
There was no point appealing (o her better nature (= kindness).
He's nol by nature an inquisitive person concerning the ~ a debate concerning the nature of violence considering/given the ~ Glven the nature of this ‘matter, Tam inclined fo think it should be managed by you ‘personally.
Their strategy was essentially political in nature.
It's not in his nature to complain.
By s very nature a secret serviceis not apen to public inspection.
We need to understand the true extent and nature of the problem.
Her view is that aggression is part of human nature.
He had a vicious side to his nature.
Pigeons navigate less accurately when the earth's magnetic field is disturbed.
Those who successfully navigate this social ‘minefield are accepted by the royal family.
These birds navigate by the sun.
He'spent ten years in the merchant navy.
Royal Navy neat adj.
Be sure to leave the room neat and tidy.
She kept her desk extremely neat.
The handuriting was surprisingly neat.
The cald weather has made it necessary to protect the crops.
Make any alterations you consider necessary.
You may find it necessary to readjust the wheels fram time to time.
These measures will be enfarced, If necessary, by the army.
Weare hereto give help and support when necessary.
The peaple in the rural areas use mud bricks anly as an immediate, practical necessity.
He argued that nuclear weapons were a palitical necessit.
Tesauw the neces sity to make an immediate impressian an him.
Observers stressed the necessity for the ceasefire to be observed.
Culling af the animals was born out of the necessity for successful conservatian.
These animals dan't like water but will swim i the necessity arises.
Where necessity demands, we can seat more guests in the gallers.
Necessity farced an urgent solution.
Of~ The visit will, of necessity, be bricf out of~ He is changing joboutaf necessity, not because he particularly wants to, through~ Most of the women are forced, through economic necessity, to work in parttime law-paid jobs.
You can dial direct withaut the necessity of going thraugh the operator.
There's na necessity far youtacome.
The company sees no necessity for a more cautious approach ta investment.
Policies which address these issues arean urgent necessity.
They have nathing but the barest necessities.
Faod isa necessity af ife.
He Killed the chicken quickly by wringing its neck.
He's aut ta save his awn political neck (= his political career).
She’s been wearing a neck bracesince her car crash.
The veins in his neck stood out like knatted rape.
The hairs on the back af my neck prickled with fear.
The cat picked up her kitten by the scruff af its neck.
He ware a casual shirt with an apen neck.
There is @ speclal need for well-trained teachers.
These children are in dire need.
He's in canstant need of treatment.
Ielt the need tado samething.
The incident proved the need for a continuing military presence in the area.
The war created a need for national units.
She stressed the need for coperation with the autharities.
The gavernment has denied the need for ecaramicreform.
The system can beswitched to emergency power should the need arise.
The ‘room was sorely in need af a fresh coat of paint.
Energy for cooking is a basic human need.
We have now met most of the humanitarian needs of the refugees.
The coaching is informal and tailored to individual needs.
She nceded some money badly.
Rescarch is urgently needed into the causes of this iliness.
You hardly need me to tell you that your father is still very frall and must not be upset.
These people may need 24-haur attention, but they do not ‘necessarilyneed to bein hospital.
You may well need to look outside your preJferred area to find affordable accommodation.
She sewed it on with needle and thread.
Insert, Jab (sb with), plunge, put, stick Hesaw her stick aneedieinto herarm.
Theneedle went in easily.
He believes that needle exchange schemes (= where drug users can change ‘used needles for clean anes) encourage drug addiction.
The needie moved away from thewind.
Waituntil the needte settles and is pointing in one direction.
She answered the question in the negative.
His interest in photography started with him developing negatives that e found lying around the house.
We must assume that the spy kept the negatives.
Their attitude was terribly negative.
She spoke n entirely negative terms.
The breathalyser test proved negative.
Hetested negative for HIV infection.
The urine tests werenegative for protein.
The eighteenth-century interior of the building has survived through benign neglect.
The buildings sufJfered neglect for centuries.
The doctor was guilty of serious neglect of duty.
After years of neglect the house is at last being restored.
This sector is oneaf the major growth areas and we cannot afford to neglect it.
Local communities have been nieglected in favour of private sector inerests neglected adj.
His tools lay neglected in the garden.
It is a sadly neglected work.
The building Is sorely neglected.
Sheis an excellent and unjustly neglected author.
The group of street children looked ragged and neglected.
The plaintiff was guilty of cantributorynegligence for failing to wear a crash helmet.
The court made @ finding of contributory negligence.
The accident was the result of negligence on the partof thedriver.
Noteat CRIME (for more verbs) negligent ad).
In The hospitel was negligent in the way it looked after this young man.
The court found him to benegli- ‘gent over the loss of £18million by the local authorits.
Delays in the courtsarefar from negligible.
Rents are individuolly negotioted between landlord and tenant.
The param eters of the jobare being continually negotiated.
We are negotiating for the release of the prisoners.
They ‘have refused to negotiate on this Issue.
Britain with Imanaged to negotiate successfuly with the authorities.
He safely negotiated the slippery stepping stones.
Negotiations were conducted in secret.
The final price is ‘open tonegotiation.
Negotiations continued all day to avert a strike.
Rents are agreed by negotiation.
Sheis in negotiation with other hecds of state on the question of oil prices.
The problem should be resotved through negotiotion.
Contracts are under negotiation.
The allionce is the product of months of negotiation between the two parties.
They signed the treaty after several years of negotiation.
Compromise is reached by a process of negoti ation.
There is considerable room Jor negotiation on some of the details.
Immediate, near, next-door They are near neighbours of ours.
She leaned towards her ‘nearest neighbour and whispered something.
Asian, black, white, etc.
Before long the whole neighbourhood knewabout .
Into A lof of new families have moved into the neighbourhood.
There were various parks around the neighbourhood.
There was a large school in the neighbourhood.
It was a car Jfrom outside the immediate neighbourhood.
Ive trapped a nerve inmy spine.
The nerve runs from the eye 10 the brain.
The nerves transmit pain.
He lay awake, his nerves throbbing.
The message travels along the nerve 1o the brain.
He's been off work witha tropped nerve in his back.
Her nerves were stretched to breaking point.
After the bomb, my nerves were on edge.
His nerves jangled every time the phone rang.
I'm not sure my nerves can stand another nightlike this.
Skydiving isall right for people who've got thenerves for it.
You need nerves of steel (o be a good poker player; a strain on sb's nerves Looking after ‘him while he was so ill has been @ great strain on her nerves.
Tve never suffered fram firstnight nerves.
She toak a few deep breaths ta calm her nerves.
Ihiad an attack of nerves just before Twent an stage.
Bythe time f the interuiew, I was a bundle of nerves.
At the last minute she almost lost her nerve.
Hekept his nerve to win a thrilling match.
You must find the nerve (o ask for mare maney.
It ook a latof nerveto stand upand speak.
At the last moment her nerve failed her.
Singing in front of so many people was a real testaf nerve.
Bath men appeared nervous.
He ‘had worked himself up into a highly nervous state.
Iwas slightiy nervous of him.
The stress of her Jab had brought her to the brink of anervous breakdoun.
With great nervousness she followed him.
She managed to speak withaut betraying her nervausness.
She laughed to hide her nervousness.
He found himself chattering away out of nervausness.
Hefelt some nervousness at the prospect of meeting her: * PHRASES @ slgn of nervousness Adjusting your tie is aften asign af nervousness.
The male and fe- ‘male take turns to sit on the nest.
The maile uses song to attract a femaletohisnestsite.
The ‘snakewill attack if disturbed insideits nest.
The female spends all her time on the nest.
She sat back, nestling agains his chest.
The fishermen were mending their nets.
Unfurtunately the animals are often caught in fishing nets.
The ball went into the net.
The nettles had spread and naw covered hall the garden.
In (the)~s There wasan old car half buried in the nettles.
The butterflies lay their eggs on nettles.
Theyare stablishing a network of pumps and pipelines tamave the ail.
Thenewrail services will form a network connecting the capital and major cities.
They were unable to run the telephane netwark ecanomically.
Users can access data acrossa network.
Members are all linked tagether in a network.
Al computer users are connected on a network.
The files are accessible ver a netwark.
Drinking water is brought to the village through a netiwark of underground pipes.
The newspapers are sent out via a national distribution network.
The government maintained its strictly neutral palicy.
The Russians took a broadly neutral pasition.
The meeting must be ata politically neutral location.
Her expressian seemed neutral.
Dolly kept her voice carefully neutral.
She chose fairIy neutral makeup.
Behaviour is never culturally neutral.
She argued thot the low ‘should always be gender neutral (= spply in exactly the same way 10 men and women).
Switzerland declared its neutrolity.
Discarded acid should be neutralized with alkali before disposal.
These ideasarenot entirely new.
Jt was all very new and strange to me.
She's still quitenew to the job and needsa lotof help.
There is nothing new in teenagers wanting to change the world.
The good riews is that we've all been given an extra day’s leave.
Great news! We've bought the house.
Some late news has just come in.
It was frontpage news at the time.
Item, piece We've had @ bit of good news.
She ran from office to office, spreading the exciting news.
News of their engagement was leaked to the press.
The Daily Nation’ carried news of the event.
It's the reporter’s job to go out and gather news.
They are waiting for news of their relatives.
The news wasgreeted withastonishment.
It wasa very ‘minor incident and barely made the news.
News s coming ir of a large fire in central Londor.
The news broke while we were on holiday.
The news spread like wildfire.
News coverage of the fighting was extremely biased.
The former manager gave his first news conference since being sacked.
She's beer in the newsa lot lately.
Joan came in with the news that a pay rise had been nickname agreed.
I'm not interested in news about celebrities.
Is there any news on thecar bomb attack?~to It was news tome that they'd got married.
The news isread by Harriet Daly.
Ourschool wasmentioned in the news.
She got a jobona national newspaper.
That bread smells nice.
His mother Sounded very nice on the phone.
Iy, thoroughly I'm sure she's perfectly nice really.
It had not been a particularly nice experience.
Some of the boys were nice enough, but shedidn'twantto goout with them.
He was incredibly nice about it, though I amsureit caused him a lot of trouble.
It's nice for Murm.
He had found his own little niche in Iife.
Each animal has its ecological niche.
He saw @ niche in the morket and explotted 1t.
She's carved out quite a niche for herself in fashion design.
These animals are moving into the iche left vacaru by the disappearance of the big predators.
There's a niche for a small stylish car.
He got his nicknome ‘Ask’ from his heavy smoking.
Leicester Tigers lived up 1 their rickname in veryattacking game.
He got his nickname when ‘hewas atschool and it stuck for the rest of his life.
Chalky’ is a common nickname for people called White.
The nicotine stains on his fingers told me he was under stress.
I'll have an early night (- go to bed early).
They spent the night in Bristol.
Askyour Mum if you can stay the night.
When it came the night fell quickly.
Paris by night during/in the ~ 7 woke in the night.
The hotel costs £65 per person per night.
She kissed hirm good night.
She doesn't like to walk home late at night.
The film gave me nightmares.
Losing a child is my worst nightmare.
Their dream of living in the country turned into a nightmare when they both fell serfously ll.
The uriter evokes a nightmare vision of a future on a polluted planet.
Hedismissed them witha curt nod.
She inspected my work and gave a satisfied nod.
He gave a passing nod (= a brief acknowledgement) totheshow that had launched his career.
My teacher gave me a nod of reassurance and I began.
He's ready to play and just waiting to get the nod from the team coach.
At nod from Lawton, he gently turned the handle.
She answered with ‘an almost imperceptible nod of the head.
Ashamed, I could only nod.
That's exactly it she said, nodding vigorously.
He nodded curtly and walked away.
She could not speak but Just nodded mutely.
He nodded absently, his mind obviously on other things.
She nodded sogely s she listened.
They nodded at us, 50 we nodded back.
In She nodded in agreement.
She niodded to Duncan as she left.
Le's go," he said, nodding towards the door: with Henodded with satlsfaction.
The slightest noise will wake him.
There was constant back- ‘ground noisefrom the motorway.
One of the children made a rudenoise.
She was making a lot of noise.
Wecould hear funny little sucking noises.
Wood is used 1o deaden the oise.
There were strange noises coming from the sitting room.
The deafening noise of the machine dropped 1o rumble, then stopped.
We fiad to shoutover the noiseaf the traffic.
The party was getting a bit noisy.
He has now been formally nominated as presidential candidate.
She was nominated for a special award.
He has been nominated to the committee.
Ske is standing for the Democratic Party presidential nomination.
Nominations are invited for the post of party chairman.
She is seeking nomination as a candidate in the elections.
Shehas withdrawn her nomination aschair- ‘man.
Best Actor award~to He will not acceptnomination to the committee.
Democratic, Republican Party, etc.
They were acting through nominees.
She shrugged, feigning nonchalance.
Services for customers on public transportare becoming non-existent.
The hotel turned out to be completely non-existent.
Crime is almost non-existent in these communities.
Most of his theortes are arrant nonsense.
I'm not going 1o stand any more of this nonsense.
Just stop this nonsense of refusing to talk 1o anybody.
Peaple are talking a Lot of nonsense about him being the new Michael Jordan.
This decision makes absolute nonsenseof allour hard work.
Thefootball action starts at 12 noon.
Infinto althe He put his head into the noose.
They tied a noose round her neck.
Their behaviour conforms to the group norm.
They wantto discourage pay settlements over the norm.
Onscreen editing has become the norm for all student work.
In the inner-city areas, poverty is the norm rather than the exception.
After a week of festivities, life returned to normal.
The rainfall has been above normal for the time of year: below~ Sales to December are well below normal.
His pulse rate had slowed to somewhere near normal.
Jt is now regarded as normal for women to work outside the home.
It started out as a perfectly normal day.
I'd say it was pretty normal to be upset if your house burned down.
The temperature is near normalfor spring.
First work out the answers as normal.
Go for your check-ups in the nor- ‘malway until you are six months pregnant.
Under normal circumstances Martin would probably have gone to university.
Mandy doesn't seem her normalself today.
Wty By now any semblance of normality had disappeared.
The sharp nose and thin lips gave his face a very harsh look.
She had dark eyes anda long narrow nose.
He stuck his bulbous red nose back into his pint of beer.
The dag pushed its wet nose into my palm.
Cats have very sensitive noses and rely heavily on scent markings.
He tapped his nose in a knowing gesture.
The children turn up their noses at almost everything I cook.
Hls nose wrinkled with distaste.
She walked with her shoulders back and her nose pointing skyward.
She was weeping quite loudly and her nose was running.
She wasn't happy with her appearancesoshe had anosejob.
The boy sat there with his finger up his nose.
He pusied his glasses up the bridge of his nose.
She walked in with her nose in thealr, ignoring everyone.
Charlie pressed his nose against the window.
He pushed the ‘nasedoun for the finalapproach.
The plane’s nose dipped as it started descending towards the runuway.
The trafic was nose to tail for miles.
He thought back to his time as a student and felt no nastalgia for any of it.
Nostalgia buffs gathered for the auction of wartime memorabilio.
The college reunion wasa great nostalgia trip.
Iremember it with great nostalgia.
She felt greatnostalgio for the old way of lfe.
The stench of the cellar Jfilled my nostrils.
In your~s The smell of decay lingered in her nasrls.
She drew on the cigarette and blew smake through her nostrils.
The drawing room is particularly notable for its splendid ook panelling.
Just a quick note to wish you luck.
Ieave (sb) She left me a note to say my supper was in the fridge.
She kept detailed notes of her travels.
I've made a note of the book's title.
The catalogue has full notes on each artist.
She'sa bit wobblyon the top notes.
On a brighter note .
His opening remarks struck the right note.
His remarks injected a noteaf levity into the proceedings.
There was a sad note in her voice.
He took careful note of the suspicious tooking mon in the corner of the bar: * PHRASES worthy of note The frescoes are worthy of note.
In passing He noted in passing that the government's record on unemployment was not very good.
These policies, as noted above, are not olways success/ul.
Visitors should note that the tower is ot open to the public.
There are a few points here that are worth noting.
There are tuwo ather points to note from this groph.
She dreiw @ natebook from her bag.
She kept anatebook during the trip.
The lake isalsonotedor ts bird population.
His reign has ‘never been considered particuarly noteworthy.
The bridge isnoteworthy for its sheer size.
Take no notice of what you read.
Normally such matters would not come to my notice.
The change was too subtle toattract much notice.
The cornpany has issued warning notices saying that all water siould be boiled.
The nofice about his resignation wentup this morning.
There are notices about where to park.
In your She's glven notice that she intends to leate.
The bank requires three days’ notice.
They cut off the electricity without notice.
She’s on a week’s notice, which doesn't give her long to find another job.
My mum probably won't even notice 'm gone.
Nobody really noticed the changes.
I've only Just noticed how lateit is.
He noticed at once that something was wrong.
Ucouldn't help noticing sth You couldn’t help noticing how his eves kept following her: noticeable ad.
These changes are more noticeable in women than in men.
The police are entitled to inspect the premises without notification.
They failed to give notification of their intention to demolish the building.
If you see anything suspicious you should notify the police immediately.
All applicants will be notified of the result by post.
Changes must be notified to the chairman.
There seems to be a general notion that nothing can bedoneabout the problem.
He's got some vague notion that peoplewill be queueing up to finance the project.
We must dispel this notion that youcan rely on the tatefor everything.
They have come (o reject the traditional notion of womanhood.
He achieved sudden notoriety when the details of his private life were revealed.
This make of car hasa certain notoriety for rust problems.
Sheep' is both a singular and plural noun.
Host feminire nouns in Polish end in the letter ‘a’.
Happiness'is an abstract noun.
Car’ s a concrete noun.
Flock’ s a collective noun.
English nouns are not usually inflected.
The noun is followed by an intransitiveverb.
Polients recover quickly if they are well nourished.
Every animal in the food chain draws ‘nourishment from other animals or plants.
Samuel Richardson's novels are all epistolary in form.
Graham Greenenovelon thetrain with me.
Her first ‘novel was finally accepted for publication.
The novel was set ina smallvillage in France.
The scheme sounded rather navel.
This tropical fruit is stil a great novelty in Europe.
The sheer novelty of the band's performancewon them many fans.
The novelty of her new job soon wore aff.
At that time the motor car was stillsomething of a novelty.
The on-screen manual shows the novice user the basics of the program.
I'm still a novice at the sport.
It taok a while to get used to the social niances of the office.
Spectators may not understand all the nuances of the game.
He refused (0 appear ‘nude in the film.
She was lying nudeon a beach towel.
She gave me a gentle nudge in theribs to tellme toshut up.
She nudged him playfully in the ribs.
It's an owful nuisance having builders in the houseall day.
He was charged with committing a public nuisance.
Idon’twantto beanuisance (o you.
Their actions rendered the contract null and void.
They declared the agreement null and void.
Robin's hand felt numb with cold.
His fingers were beginning to turn numb.
My legs were numb from kneeling.
Their fingers were going numb with cold.
Her voice sounded numb.
Ieave sb The news left us numb and confused.
Laura felt otally numb.
With He felt numb with weariness and grief.
Houses on this side of the road have even numbers.
Many people think 13 isan unlucky number.
Addall the numbers together, divide by ten, and take away the number you first thought of.
There were about 150 there, in round numbers.
There’s more to accountancy than just number crunching.
We've had a fair number of complaints about the new phone system.
There are an infinite number of solutions to the problem.
The candidates received an equal number of votes.
Many people have died in the epidemic— the precise number is not known.
Factories had increased in number between the wars.
Shark numbers haveduwindledasa resultof hunting.
In~ The paintings, twelve in number,are over 200 years old.
Each pigeon hole is learly num- ‘bered by floor and by room.
Number the car’s features from 110 10according to importance.
By the midtwelfth century pilgrims were numerous enough to merita ‘guidebook.
The related ‘publications are far too numerous tolist individually.
This s a job for the schoul nurse.
Thechildren areat nursery three days a week.
She works as an assistant ina nursery.
Many children at the school were found to be suffering Jfrom inadequate nutrition.
Adapt your usual eating regime tomake it more nutritious.
We ‘pulled hard on the oars.
We shipped the oars to get through the narrow opening.
He took an oath of allegianceto his adopted country.
He swore on oath that he had never seen me ‘Defore.
Witnesses must testify under oath.
He muttered a stream of oaths.
In~to She acted in passive obedience to her boss's directions.
The slaves had to swear obedience to their masers.
She was used to having her orders instantly obeyed.
At the trial the soldiers made the excuse that they were only obeying orders.
Rules are rules and they must be obeyed.
Her paintings are of ordinary everyday objects.
My sole object is t0getto the bottom of this mystery.
Theplansare an object lesson inhowtoruin acity centre.
The object of the exercise is to score as many points as possible.
It was your own idea in the first place, so you can hardly object now.
Tobjected on the grounds that it was unkind 1 the animals.
I'd like fo open a window, unless anyone has any objections.
She was appointed over the objections of certain members of the board.
The committee hasraised serious objections to the plans.
The two groups are pursuing a common objective.
The department needs more money to fulfil its objectives.
We nead 1o establish clear objective.
In an/the ~ The party is radical in its objectives.
We succeeded in our prime objective of cutting costs.
The builders failed to meet their contractual obligations.
We have a moral obligation tohelp.
Our morigage advice is given free and without obligation.
The college ‘authorities have now made these classes obligatory.
Itis obligatory for vets to be registered.
The fans were looking for another goal and Owen duly obligedl (= scored).
The staff are alwayshappy tooblige.
Libel plaintiffsarevirtualiy obliged togo in40 the witness box.
Porents are obliged by law to send their children fo school.
I'mmuch obliged to youfor helping us.
Iyobliterated by the bomb.
In~ Hedied inoblivion in a remotevillage.
Chiko appeared oblivious to the uproar.
His own arrogance made him oblivious to thecriticisms of others.
She ‘seemed almost oblivious Lo the crowds of reporters.
The book was declared obscene.
All traceof hisworking-class background was deliberately obscured.
Solo passages in this register arevery easity obscured by other instruments.
The moon was obscured behind awallof cloud.
These figures ob- ‘scure the fuct that a lot of older people live in great poverty.
The howse was obscuredfrom view bya high hedge.
The origins of thetradition ‘have become obscure.
The motives behind this decision remain somewhat obscure.
After many years, his scientific work emerged from obscurity.
Hespent his eorly life in relative obscurity.
She was intelligent and ‘highly observant.
She was admited to hospitat for observation.
The police have had him under observation Jforseveralweeks.
Thesurvey was based ondirectobservation of over 500schools.
It is not possible to observe this phenomenon directly, but its effects can be seen n the rise in global temperatures.
It is the parents who actually observe these behavioural problems in their children.
She stood there, quietly observing the domestic scene.
This phenomenon hos been observed experimentally.
It is interesting to observe the reaction of the children to these changes.
This behaviour is commonly observed among several speciesof finch.
This ‘proceduremust becorrectly observed.
To the casual observer, it would have looked like any other domestic argument.
Independent abservers will monitor the elections.
Some militar observers fear the US could get entangled in another war.
The suddenness of this move surprised many observers.
The talks were attended by observers from eight Arab countries and Israel.
Iattended the conference asan observer.
Don't let this interest of yours become an obsession.
He was in the gripof on obsession and would not listen toreason.
Their work is now rendered obsolete by machines.
The attitude of the unions is a serious obstacle.
Lack of ‘money has proved.
He was determined to cvercomeall obstacles in his way.
The huge distances involved have proved an obstacle to communication between villages.
In the path/way (of sbisth) The release of prisoners remains an obstacle in the path of a peace agreement.
Theasylum seekers had to contend with continued bureaucratic obstruction.
The lorry had been parked an the pavement, causing an obstruction.
She had Lo have surgery to remove an obstruction from her throat.
The Iocal authoritymay assistyou toobiain alternative accammodation.
It isnecessary ta obtain the patients’ consent.
Such information Is easity obtained from the Internet, sth canimay be obtained Detailsof this offer can be obtained from any of our stores.
It soan became obvious that the machine did not work.
I'm not going to tell Jim about this,for fuirly obvious reasons.
Avoid making intuitively obvious butunfounded assertions.
It is abvious to me that you're unhappy in your Job.
It was the first of many such occasions.
The police werecalled out on 24 separate occasions.
He has even been known (o go shopping himselfonoccasion.
On one occasion he even rang me in the middle of the night.
On thisoccasion, as it happens, the engtne started immediately.
Ill speak to him If the occasion arises.
It should have been an occasion for rejoicing.
Last year we had occasion tovisit relatives in Cornwall.
The Queen’s coach is only used for state occasions.
The choir roseto the occasion and sang beautifulls.
Thesole occupantof the car was an elderly man.
Agricultural work Is traditionally seen 0s a male occupation.
The college provides training in.
The invaders have given up occupation of large parts of the erritories.
During the occupation, the church wasused asa mosque.
Large parts of Britain were under Roman occupation.
You can only take up occupation once the tenancy has been signed.
He intends 1o remain in occupation of the building for as long as possible.
The flats will be ready for accupation by March.
The houses were judged to be unit for human occupation.
The sofa was entirely occupied by two largecats.
We need something to keep the children occupied.
In You will be mainly occupied in checking sales records.
She was happily occupied with reading.
These chemical changes occur quite naturally.
Opportunities for learning occur spontaneously every das.
In These mild fits are quite a common occurrencein babies.
Iind it odd that she takes s0long todo that job.
Ididn’t think it odd at the time.
There’s something distinctly odd about her.
She struggled against terrible odds to overcome her illness.
Sometimes an outsider will winat long odds, butnotoften.
The ‘bookmakers areoffering only short odds on the favourite.
I'll lay odds we never see him again.
She defied the odds to beat the clear favourite.
Thefilm is a heart-warming tale of triumph against the odds.
The odds against their survival have lengthened.
They were offering ‘odds of ten 10 one.
The odds on the outsider were 100-1.
Against all the odds, wemanaged to get through to the final.
The offence is punishable by up to three months' imprison- ‘ment.
He takes offence ot the slightest joke against him.
Ididn't meanto give offence to anyone.
He knew that he had offended her deeply.
He was very sensitive and easily offended.
Omit anything that is likely tooffendpeople.
She stopped midsentence, anxious not to offend him.
She sounded offended when shereplied.
As a first offender; he received a lenient sentence.
As regards pollution, old dieselengined vehicles are the worst offenders.
She took the offensive, challenging her critics to prove their allegations.
He's always making rudere.
This sort of attitude is very offensive to black people.
They refused our offer of help.
Jree offer with my shompoo.
Several people ‘havemadeenquiries butnoone has madea firm offer.
I'll listen to any reasonable offer.
They Jjust kept upping their offer until1 had tosay yes.
The property is currently under offer toa dlient.
Several people put in an offer for the house.
They accepted our offer of £50 000.
The asking price is £500 but T'm open to offers.
They are selling their car for £2 5000r near offer.
Do you need any help? he offered impulsively.
The plan seemed to offer real advantages.
This investment is likely tooffera higher return.
She felt obliged to offer him a bed for the night.
This player has proved that he still has a lot to offer (= can still play wall).
The open evening is a chance to see what the college has tooffer students.
Sheoffered drinks to her guests.
They haveaffered over £500 000for the house.
Thelatestoffering from this young bandis their best album yet.
They made sacrificial offerings to the gods.
The company set up its first permanent offices inthecity centre.
The prime minister arrangeda meeting in his private office.
Into, comelgo to I sometimes g0 into the office on Saturdays when we're busy.
Working in a busy office environment can be stressful.
The old warehouses have been redeveloped for office accommodation.
The conference centre provides office fucilities such as computers ond faxes.
Pmsorry, Mr Anders s not in the office today.
He ran for affice in the last presidentiol election.
The president holds office for a period of four years.
The government was returned to office by a large majority.
Martin was sworn into officeas prime minister in March.
The Labour Party took office in 1997.
The decision rests with the ranking officer (= the most senior officer present).
He telephoned the duty officer atregimental headguarters.
Report the incident to the responsible officer.
The charity has a full-ime press officer working with the national newspapers.
We spoke to the duty officer at the police station.
Jformal) Officers raided an address in south London, seizing bomb-making equipment.
Report the incident to the responsible official.
The noise was rather off-putting.
The company’s losses in the USA were more thanoffset by gains everywhereelse.
The money will help offset big medical bills.
Your donations to charity can be offset againsttax.
He was ruledoffside by the referee.
Usea rag soaked in linseed oil.
The company is drilling for oll in the North Sea.
The place ‘smelled of paintand ol.
Toast the bread, rub with garlic and drizzle overa litleolive oil.
Frythe potato inalittle sunflower oil.
The sick were anointed with ol.
He had rather oily hands.
Lank or naturally oil hair is often difficult fo carefor.
Idid OK in the exam.
I'm quite OK row, thanks.
John has suggested meeting at six, and that's OK by me.
You are asold as youfeel.
The way the young pecple rushed about made her feelold.
As they grow older; they develop new interests.
She was quite old when she got married.
It's a very old tradition.
Triese are some af the oldest known fossil remains.
It's the world's oldest surviving ship.
She can look forward to @ happyald age.
All my grandporents survived into advanced old age.
In (your)~Loss of hearing often occurs inold oge.
He took up golf in his old age.
She was now well intoold age.
She Lived to the ripeoldageaf 98.
Wearing a hat is regarded as ra ther old:fashioned nowadays.
It was plain oldfashioned instinct, the gut feeling that something was wrong.
In She's somewhat old:fashioned in her attitudes.
Call me oldJfashioned, but Lstill believe in good manners.
The sunny weather was a good omen for the ‘holiday.
Several offences such as manslaughter may ‘be committed by omission.
He was controversially omitted from the World Cupside.
Some important details were deliberately ‘omitted from the report.
The violence was far from onesided (= both peaple, teams, etc.
Their relationship seems rather ane-sided.
Garrish with a little chopped spring onion.
His first hit record ‘marked the onsetof an astanishing career.
Cream oozed outat thesides.
Blood oozed slowly from his wound.
He was oozing with contempt for us.
Add the rice to the pan and cook until it becomes opague.
The glasses looked slightly opague.
The windows were nearly opaque with grime.
The complex administrative arrangements render the decision-making process sometchatopague.
She opened all the windous wide to let some Jresh air in.
Fred opened it gingerly and peered inside.
The glass doors opened automatically for him.
Topened out themap and laid iton the table, o*Open up!" He hammered.
Her parachuteailed to open.
The book lay open infrontof him.
The bag fell open.
Suddenly the door Jlew open.
The woman's mouth sagged open.
The gote swung open.
She flung the door open and rushed in.
She Plipped open Chris's diary.
He tore the letter open.
She held the door open Jforthem.
Iound the door open.
She's very open about her mistakes.
Some of the supermarkets stay open till ten.
We want to keep the village storeopen.
Thecar park is only open to residents.
The Australian premier declared the Olympic Games open.
He missed one of the clearest openings in thegame.
There Is @ need for greater openness ingovernment.
He demonstrated an opennessto change.
The machine can operate for 15 hours continuously at full power.
The doors can bemanually operated i the event of fire.
The machinery iseasy tooperate.
The laboratory is still owned by the government but is now commercially operated.
The government does not operate according to fixed rules.
We operate as an advisory service for schools.
Local authorities operate within a wider political system.
He had an operation 10 remove a tumour.
She came through the operation very well.
She woke during the operation.
The authorities launched a massive security operation In thecity.
The machine can get very hot during operation.
The current tax system has been in operation Jfor tenyears.
The equipment is now fully operational.
The new system will not become fully operativeuntil next year.
Opinions are mixed regarding genetically-modified food.
If in doubt about your diagnosis, get a second apinion.
The bishop spoke without passing any opinion on the scandal.
He asked me for my opinion on the course.
Opinions difJer as towhen this wineshould be drunk.
In my opinion, golf is a dull sport.
She holds strong opinions on education.
He has a very highopinion of your work.
Jference of opinlon between the experts in my humble opinion (humorous), a matter of opinion ‘London is wonderJful“That's a matter of opinion.
Prevailing local opinion is against the new road proposals.
Public opinion is divided on the subJectof capiital punishment.
Opinion among doctors is that the medication is safe.
Jfaces her toughest opponent on Centre Court.
We need to give them a reasonable opportunity (o look ot thedisplay.
Students should take every opportunity to widen their experience.
We didn't get much opportunity to swim.
May I take this opportunity to congrotulate Ruth on her promtion.
He lost no opportunity tovent his anger on those around him.
When the opportunity came, I seized it with both hands.
The company aimed to expand as and when opportunity offered.
The jobuwill ofer you excellent opportunilties for promotion.
The ceasefire has created a window of opportunity to rescue the peace process.
We would vigorously oppose such a polics.
We totally oppose the use of gas fo kill any animal.
Environmental lobby groups successfully opposed the plan.
The minister has consistently opposed any relaxation in the law.
The two sets of values seemed mutually opposed.
The path hesaw himself taking in his research ‘seemed directly oppased to the ethos of the department.
Doubl is not the opposite of faith— unbelief s.
The effect was exactly the opposite (o what he intended.
He is up against stiff opposition from his colleagues.
We will brook no opposition to the strategy.
Opposition came primarily from students.
She won against determined opposition from last year's champion.
The authorities succeeded despite bitter cpposition from teachers.
In ~ to The warring factions had united in opposition to the common enemy.
The praposals met with violent opposition from: the environmental lobby.
There was fierce public opposition to the plan.
The Conservative Party isnow in opposition.
By 1960, the initial li- ‘mism had evaporated.
The news caused a wave of optimism.
There was a note of optimism in his voice.
Despite the crisis a cautious optimism prevailed.
The government expressed optimism about the success of the negotiations.
There are now very real grounds for optimism.
The 19705 began still full of optimism.
Pete, ever the optimist, said things were bound to improve.
He remained strongly optimistic that an agreement could be reached.
Theseestimates were wildly optimistic.
Idon'twant toexaggerate our chances, but I'm cautiousIyoptimistic.
He's very optimistic about his chances.
You have the option of taking your holidayearly.
Deciding on your best option is not easy.
Studies would be a soft option.
She took upanoption in her contract to buy three million shares.
The extra languoge classes are entirelyoptional.
Adda little grated orange peel.
Mercury's arbit is Jairly eccentric.
The spaceship madeanorbit of the moon.
The satellite will remain in orbit for several years.
The full orchestra includes two pairs of French horns.
The orchestra struck up a lively march.
She plays viola in a string orchestra.
She was subjected to a terrible six-day ardeal.
This is the fourth time the prime minister hasfaced ordeal by egg (= had eggs thrown at him).
They were spared the ordeal of giving evidenceincourt.
Thewinners were announced in reverse order: in~of Tue listed the tasks inorder of priority.
She attempted to impose some order on the chaos of herfiles.
The house s in good order.
Keep sbisth in Some teachers find it difficult to keep their classes in order.
The argument continued until the chairman called them both to order (= ordered them toobey the formal rules of the meeting).
Would it be in order for us to examine the manuscript? out of~ (= not allowed by the rules) Hisobjection wos ruled outof order.
One of the committee members raised a point of order.
He openied his sealed orders.
The captain gave the order io fire.
The local civilians dor’t take orders from the military.
He barked out orders os he lef.
The ship wos tosetsail atonce, on the admiral's orders.
The colonel had ‘givenordersfor thespy's execution.
The company won a £10 miltion order for olldrilling equipment.
We have ten boxes on order.
We havea firm order for ten cases of wine.
The army's Chief of Staff had personally ordered the raid.
There were seven bookings ‘and two players were ordered off.
Wecan order the book for you, if you like.
Youcan order the book direct from the publisher.
The entries areordered alphabetically.
Different senses of a word are ‘ordered according to frequency.
She led a highly ordered existence, with everything having its own time and place.
We want (o bring about this change inan orderly fashion.
He made all the other players on the field look decidedly ordinary.
It was a perfectly ordinary day.
The meal was pretty ordinary.
Theeyes are an important organ of balance.
The farm went fully organic in 1996.
For more verbs see nate.
The company was founded in 191 dissolve~ (often lat) ‘She sought a court order to have the partnership dissolved.
He runs an accountancy firm.
The executive committee manages the group ona day-today basis.
She became a member of the Society of Arts.
The country plans to leave the organization.
Theyorganized the festival jointIy with the French cultural service.
We need 10 organize the work according to the availability and skills of each volunteer: around We're organizing the evening around a Japanese theme.
Although it doesn't look like it, the whole thing is highly organized.
Oten there is no formally organized system of childcare.
Each department is hierarchically organized.
You need to get organized.
Make sure all the components remain correctly orientated.
The service is not sufficiently arientated 10 the needsof those who useit.
Theterm"black hole'is of very recent origin.
The development had its immediate origins in discussions with management.
We shouldn't forget our animal origins.
Gdarisk go back to the tenth century.
The rock is volcanic in origin.
Bottles are labelled by country of origin.
Thedispute had itsoriginin the Battle of Wakefield.
He had risen from humble origins through hard work.
Their family can trace its origins back 1o the Norman Conquest.
Her accent betrayed her working class origins.
Hes a Londoner by origin.
Her family is Portuguese inorigin.
He was of lowly origins.
He copied patntings of famous artists and passed them off as originals.
She as a ‘highly original mind.
His originality as a painter lies in his representation of light.
Tiie government has shown great originality in s foreign policy.
The turretsare purely ornamental.
She was left an orphan at the ageoffive.
His ideas areatl fairly orthodox.
This is the strictly orthodox vlew.
Jam not a very orthodox kind of counsellor.
Hewas treated asa social outcast.
Her criminal past made her anoutcast.
Their strategy produced the desired outcome.
The bombing caused an international outcrs.
There was a massive publicoutcry against the harsh prison sentence.
He looked very smart i his new outfit.
The children were on a day’s outing from school.
The revenue from the farm could repay the initial outlay within three years.
The project would requirelittle financial outlay.
The railiway had made a considerable cap.
Sport provided an outletfor his energy.
She needsanoutlet for her talents.
The sharp outline of the island had ‘become blurred.
The children made an outline of their hands.
Jjust make out the dim outlines of the house in the mist.
Hesketched thestreet in outlineonly.
Writean outline for your essay.
Her's theplan in outline.
He roughly outlined the plot of the opera.
Having children gave her a broader outlook on_life.
Travel broadens your outlook.
She is rather cautious in outlook.
The outlook Jor people on a state pension is grim.
Improve The drug improves the long-term outloak of migraine sufferers.
Their failures vastly outnumber their successes.
The Czechs outnumbered the Slovaks by at least two toone.
The Spanish were hopelessly outnumbered in the battle.
The plant plans to increase output to 10 000 cars a year.
Media reports generated moral outrage.
Thenews was greeted with outrage.
Shopkeepers voiced their outrage at the newtax.
In~ The guests all shouted in outrage.
She was trembling with outrage.
Campaigners have expressed outrage at the decision.
The announcement Dprovoked howls of outrage.
The new law on pensions is an outrage against the elderly.
She thought it absolutely outrageous that he should be promoted over her.
The firm has gone from being an outsider in themarket to being a market leader.
Athens on the~ We live on the outskirts of Leeds.
Two or three tasks still remain outstanding.
The benefits would surely far outweigh the risks.
The advantages of this scheme more than oulweigh the costs involved.
The leaves are long and almostoval.
The audience gave her a standing ovation for her performance.
He received the longest ovation of the evening.
He came off the field to a huge ovation.
The final piece won her a rapturous ovation from the audience.
Bake them in a warm oven until risen and golden brown.
Tandoori food is cooked ina clay oven.
Stitch on the oven and let it heatup.
These problems were never entirely overcome.
She felt quite overcome by their kindness.
Several firefighters had been overcome by smokeand fumes.
He was suddenly overcome with re- ‘morse for the harm he had done.
She Look an overdoseof paracetamol.
Weoffer a free £4000verdraft.
They exceeded their overdrafl by £200 000.
Inever like togooverdrawn if I can help it.
These reforms are long overdue.
This system is overduefor reform.
The Ministry of Finance consistently overestimated its budget deficits.
It is easy to overestimate the cost of this kind of research.
Weoverestimated the cost by about 2 per cent.
The importance of this group cannot be overestimated.
The poth was completely overgroun.
The canal bank was thickly overgrown with lastyear’s brambles.
The iax system ‘has undergone a complete overhaul.
Theplan was completely overhauled.
The seagulls circled overhead.
Storm clouds were gathering overhead.
The storm must be directly overhead.
The moon was high overhead.
Excuserme for interrupting, but I couldn't help overhearing what you were saying.
She was not exactly overJoyed toseeus again.
They're all overjoyed about .
We are overjoyed by this decision.
Mr Crangle was overjoyed with his success.
Put the two pieces of paper together so that they overlapslightly.
With Their staff ore heavily overloaded with work.
Coneniently overlooking the fict that she wouldn’t be able to meet the commit- ‘ment, she agreed enthusiastically.
We should not overlook this possibility.
Hospitals have tended to overlook this need.
The importance of this should ot be overlooked.
He personally oversaw the design of all therooms.
Byan oversight, we did not send out the ‘agenda for the meeting.
Through oversight, the bill was still unpaid.
Doclors work excessive unpaid overtime.
In, work I do about five ‘hours’ overtime a week.
She puts in lot of overtime.
The union imposed an overtime ban in protest at the sacking of two workers.
The word ‘cheap’ has negative overtones.
The organization's cultural activities took on political overtones.
She spurned his overtures of love.
He made friendly overtures t his new neighbours.
She completely overturned my preconceptions about filmstars.
This argument seems convincing, bul s easily overturned.
Only the Head of Sales has an overview of thesituation worldwide.
The seminar aims to provide an overview on new media publishing.
Don't et yourself get averwelght.
Deal withstress fust whenever it threatens to overwhelm you.
We were totally overwhelmed by the response to our appeal.
She felt completely overwhelmed.
The urge (o look was almost overwhelming.
All these new experiences werea little overwhelming.
Owls prey on small rodents.
Only when the means of production were communally awned would classes disappear: © She owns the house jointly with her husband.
They dreamed of owning thelr own ‘home.
The company isa wholIy owned subsidiary of SNL Research.
The museum s privately owned.
I'm part owner of the restaurant.
The shop has changed ownership several times.
He transferred the legal ownership of his property to his children.
The railways passed into public ownership.
Ounership of the lond passed from father toson.
The cafe is under new ownership.
After dark the plants stop producing oxygen.
There wasa risk the brain might be starved of oxygen.
The ozone layer is disuppearing over narthern Europe.
Take two paces forward.
Step back three paces.
Two bodyguards remained a couple of Ppaces behind the president_throughout the walkabout, ~from I stopped a few paces from the edge of the cliff.
The project had a slow start, but is now gathering pace.
Thinking that she was being followed, she quickened her pace.
Brown set the pace in thefirst mile.
Te younger children struggled to keep pace with the older ones.
Youshouldn't have such ajob if you can't stand the pace.
They set off at a cracking pace.
The pace of change means that equipment has to be constantly replaced.
The pace of ife is much slower on the islands.
Pace He's a skilful player witha good turn of pace.
She paced restlessly up and down.
He paced slowly backand forth.
She began pacing round the room.
In althe ~ The water in his pack made it very heauy.
Your resource pack includes addresses of leading manufacturers.
It comes in packs of six.
In the pack In~s The animals hunt in packs.
There are 52 playing cards ina pack.
Takea cardfrom the 10pof the pack.
Live animals are tronsported across the continent, packed tightly into lorries.
The passengers travelled packed together like cattle.
Ithink we might as well pack up and go home.
In, into She packed her clothes into a suitcase.
Crowds of people packed into the hall.
Our new brochure is packed full of inspirational ideas.
The cinema was packed out! be packed to bursting/capacityloverflowing The hall was packed to capacity.
The hastel was packed to the rafters.
The place was packed with footballfans.
Police destroyed the suspect package in a controlled explosion.
I'sent the books in one big package.
The IMF has put together a rescue package for the country's Jaltering economy.
In althe ~ the measures included in the package under althe ~ Under the reform package spending on ‘health will increase.
Ds would be fur cheaper to produce without the glossy packaging.
Follow the instructions on the packet.
All prices include postageand packing.
The Social Democrats struck an electoral pactwith the Liberals.
Shedied with her lover ina suicidepact.
Paklstan and France~with He madea pact with thedevil.
She doodled on a pad as she spoke.
She was wearing a warm coat and thickly padded gloves.
The shoulder straps are padded with foam.
The cat ‘Ppadded silently along the track.
He paddled furiously against the current.
There's a phata of him an_the appasite page/an the page apposite.
Write each answer on a new page.
The speech did not transfer wellta the printed page.
She sat idly lipping through the pages of Jashion magazine.
Several pages had come loase.
Open your books at page 14.
The murder takes place in the opening pages of the novel.
The crossword is n the back page.
The article continuesaver thepage.
Write your name at the top of each page.
The story is thirty pages lang.
She had a burning pain in one eye.
She's been off work with back ‘pain.
He went (o the doctor with chest pains.
In, be racked with, experience, feel, get,go through, have, suffer (from) He was obviausly ina great deat of pain.
Marathon runners are used to going through pain.
He was taken to haspital suffering fram severe abdominal pain.
Inflict His back gives him great pain.
It's wrong £ inflict pain an any animal.
Your doctor should be able to do something for the pain.
His face was contorted with painas he crassed the finish tne.
The pains began shortly after she started work as a gardener.
Eucalyptus oil is good for easing muscular aches and pains.
Inflict Through her drug addiction she had inflicted @ lotaf patn on the family.
It took him several years to get aver the pain of losing his job.
We ‘haped tospare her the pain of having to meet her attacker.
He tried ta conceal his pain from her.
The government has to persuade the people that the economic reformsare worth the pain.
She Jound it unbearably painful to speak.
The subject of his fuiled marriage was quite painful to him.
Theaperation was relatively painless.
I'l give the walls a fresh coat of paint.
The artist has used several layers of paint ta create the stormy ‘sky.
Paint was peeling from the walls.
We did a quick paint job on the car ‘and hoped the damage wasn’t noticeable.
The watls had been painted very badls.
Paintthe box all over with varnish.
Wepainted the walls light green.
I'll do some painting this afternwoon.
When she retired she took up painting.
The firm specializes in painting and decorating.
The design is based on an original painting by Marisse.
Cubist, Impressionist, Old pale Master, etc.
Degas did several paintings of ballet dancers.
She collects paintings by nineteenthcentury Australian artists.
His most famous paintings hang in the Tate Gallery.
In althe ~ The woman in the painting is the artist's mistress.
Answer one questian in each pair In~s Thesecandlesticksonlycomein pairs.
The pair were matched for age.
Iarranged Jor them to meet.
The students worked in pairs.
Even this ‘small house was a veritable palace compared (o his tent.
The palace stands on the west bank of theriver.
The king was deposed by his son ina palace coup.
Their baby had an operation to repairacleftpalate.
Jaded Here Is a dish that will revive jaded palates.
She has a discerning palate.
This kind of food appeals to mare sophisticated patates.
Have an apple 1o cleanse your palate.
Ruth went paleas the news sank in.
Fe turned deathly pale.
He looked pale and draun.
He held up & palm or silence.
He spread his palms in a gesture of openness.
Hold out your arms with the palms facing downwards.
The metal felt hot against my paims.
He took her hand betuween his palmsand squeezed it.
In your~ He showed me the coins in his palm.
She held out her hand tome, palm up.
The missing pane has been replaced.
The wind blew ina pane of their front window.
Her face was pressed against the pene.
The rain ran doun the window pare.
There was dirton the pane.
The comedian willchair a new TV panel game.
The head of department serves on the advisory panel.
The winners were chasen by a panel of Judges.
My rear nearside body panel needed replacing after the accident.
He works as a panel beater ina local garage.
He experienced @ sudden pang of conscience.
The photograph gave her a pang of homesickriess.
With a parg she recalled the last time she ‘had seen him.
She felta little pang of jealousy.
There was a last-minute panic when nobody could find the tickets.
He felt panic rising within him.
She went into a mad panic when she couldn't find the exit.
The thought of having to be in charge threw him intoa mild panic.
Paric swept through the crowd.
She still has panic attacks, two years after the accident.
The shopkeeper pressed the panic button and the police arrived in minutes.
Panic buying turned the petrolshortage intoa crisis.
In (@)~ He jumped out of the car in a ponic.
People fled in panic.
Her mind went biank with panic.
The keys were lost during the panic over the fire alarm.
Hewas panting for breath.
Shewas panting with the effort of carrying the suitcase.
Mason puffed and panted up thesstairs.
He was so frightened that hewel his pants.
The Post Office has a special rate for printed paper.
I've had nothing on paper (= in writing) fo say that I've been accepted.
I'm going to write, but Thaven't yet put pento paper a waste of ‘paper Thisreportisa waste of paper.
The paper comes out every Saturday.
Thieexam papersare set by experienced teachers.
You may now turn over your papers.
The paper looks at the future of primary school education.
In afthe ~ Freud first mentioned this concept in his paper 'On Narcissism’.
The book is (0 be published asanoriginal ‘paperback (=it is not being published in hardback first).
The novel has just come outin paperback.
The book is now available in paperback.
I've got a ot of routine paperwork to get through.
Tre project involved an enor- ‘mous amount of paperwork.
He made his first parachute jumpat the age of sevents.
Supplies weredropped by parachute.
The police held an identity parade.
The battalion went on parade to welcome the new commander-in-chicf.
The president reviewed themilitary parade.
Thousands of peaple were at the parade.
The soldiers will be on parade tomorrow.
They all expected 10 g0 t0 paradise.
She worked on the garden until she had created her own little paradise.
They moved tothe country hoping tofind paradise.
We ound ourselves in a tropical paradise.
The airport is a paradise for pickpockets.
Ve facts pose something of a paradox.
The paradox about time is that it seems to go0aster s we become older and less active.
By a curious paradox, theteam became less motivated the more games it won.
He found himself in a curiously paradoxical situation.
Start each paragraphonanew line.
The identity of themurderer is revealed in the very last paragraph.
Cancellation charges will apply in accordance with Pparagraph 4 above.
This weather pattern of the southern hemisphere has no parallel in the north.
He drew an interesting parallel with religious practices in Japan.
We found a direct parallel in the attitudes of schoolchildren in other countries.
She saw an obvious parallel with her sister’s predicament.
The lane is roughly parallel to the main road.
The road runs parallel with the sea.
Hewas partially paralysed by thefall.
Theaccident left her paralysed.
Instant The snake’s venom induces instant paralysis.
He had been crigpled by a rare ypeof paralysis spreading from his ankle.
Strilke leaders claimed ‘almost complete paralysis’ in the ports and mines.
These lies carrya dangerous parasite.
The waiter had our left-over food made up into a parcel to take home.
He came in laden with parcels for the children.
Thegovernment offered a free pardon to the rebels.
Sheasked for pardon for her crime.
They have just become the proud parents of a baby girl.
The government has promised better deal for working porents.
The mountain has been designated as a national park.
They g0 to the park most Sunday afternoons.
The lion was shot dead byapark ranger.
We met at Hyde Pork.
They went fora walk in the park.
The palice car was discreetly parked in the furthest corner of thecourtyard.
He frst stood for Parliament in 2001.
In, sit in He sat in Parliament for over fortyyears.
He was returned to ParLioment in 2001 as MPfor Appleby.
The bill will come before Perliament next month.
The government was accused of forcing the bill through Poriiament.
The Commission is guided by rules laid down by Parliament.
Parliament may legislate on any motter of penal lew.
Pariiament will be in session until 15th December.
Act of Parliament, 3 (lower/upper) house of parliament 7 National Assembly s the lower house of the French Parliament.
Iifetime of & poy ment It will takeat least the lifetime of a parliament to put the health service in order.
Parlisment The party has a twothirds majority in Parliament.
Parliament, a sest in Parliament sth's passage through Parliament Sponsors of the bill agreed to concessions in order to smooth its passage through Parliament.
He attacked her ideas through parods.
She has written a cruel parody of his book.
The show included a parody on current affairs programmes.
He sighed in a parody of deep emotion.
The trial wasa parody of Justice.
She was released on parole after serving just half of her sentence.
He broke (his) parale.
He committed a burglary while on parole.
With parole, he could be out in two years.
Wespent a good part of the day rehearsing.
The participation greater part of the building has been refurbished.
Cut it into four equal parts.
The worst part was having to wait three hours.
In the early part of his career he worked in India.
Break it down intoits constituent parts.
Your salory depends in part on your qualifications.
The film is good in parts.
Part of me wants tostay and part of medoesn't.
Hewasa piratein the school play and certainy looked the part.
He's very good in the part.
She played the partof Juliet.
Luck played a big pert in it.
He had no part in the scam.
They took little part in the discussion.
She was an un willing participant in his downfall.
Protests on 12 April attracted 100 000 participants.
Some of the magic tricks called for oudience participation.
Ve were very pleased with the high level of participation in the charity events.
The scheme aims toencourage increased participation in sporting activities.
As her parting shot she told me niever 1o phone her again.
She was already dreading the moment of parting.
The cofe was divided up byglass partitions.
There were no partitions betuween the showers.
She was the dominant partner in the relationship.
The old political sparring partners arenowfirm friends.
The teacher asked the students tochoosea partner for the nextactivity.
He has recently been madea junior partner in the family business.
The company has gone into partnership with Swiss Bank Corporation.
We took him into partnership in 2002.
We shall be working in close partnership with our Japanesecients.
They are in partnership with Apex software.
In She has a partnership in the business.
Communist, Conservative, Democratic, Labour, Liberal, Republican, stc.
They are now the majority party in Parlioment.
The party wasofficiallydissolved in 1927.
He was accused of having strong links with the Communist Party.
She left the party in 2000.
The Labour party lost the vote on this important issue.
Most MPs will follow the the official view of the party).
On ‘moving in they threw huge house-warming party.
By now the party was in full swing.
The party broke up around midnight.
Pm organizing a surpriseporty for mysister.
She arrived with a party of helpers.
First we must notfy all the interested parties.
This agreement shall be binding upon both parties.
Ziege played a pass behind the deJence to Weiss.
Ouwen picked up a long pass from Beckham toscore.
She barely scroped a pass in chemistry.
The pass mark is 40%.
If's difficult to obtain a pass at A Level.
He should get a good pass in mathematics.
Thevisitors were issued with day passes.
We ‘boughta two-doy pass to Disneyland.
Ve took the high pass over theridge.
The time passed quickly.
We played games (o help pass the time.
The demonstration passed off peacefully.
They'll never be friends agoin after all that has passed between them.
In the confusion her departure passed unnoticed.
He forced a passage for the singer through the crowd.
We ran through the dark passage.
Someone was waiting outside in the passage.
There is an underground passage from thechurch to the house.
Therewas adoor ot the end of the passage.
In athe~ There’s a lot of slang in this passage.
In the 15th symphony he ‘quotes a passage from Rossini’s ‘William Tell’ overture.
The passion UN Security Council has demanded free passage for fomilies fleeing from the fighting.
Steps cut in the hillside give walkers an easy passage down the mountain, ~from .
Weare nat aware of our passage from consciousness to sleep.
They denied him possoge through theterritory.
The problems only got worse with the passage of time.
Marriage s seenas arite of passoge.
He worked his passoge(= ha worked to pay for his journey) (o Australio.
During the passage, she tought herself basic Arabic.
We met him on our outward possage.
Atlantic~to We had a stormy passogeto India.
There was much controversy during the passage of the bill.
Last year the airline corried 4.
The bus stopped to letits passengers off.
Thousands of passengers were stranded lost night ot Heothrow airport.
There s no air bog on the passenger side.
Will all passengers for Fronkfurt please go t0Gate21.
Few will mourn his passing.
Her death marks the passing of an ero.
The colour of the wood darkens with the passing of time.
She was his first great passion.
No one had ever aroused his passion as much as Sandro.
With ~ They kissed with passion.
The passion between them had cooled.
They spent a night of passion in a hotel.
There were moments of high passion in the game.
This issue aliways arouses passion.
He argued his case with great passion.
She killed her husband's lover in crimeof passion.
She had very little time to indulge her passion for painting.
Hedeveloped a reat passion for acting.
The heroine plays an essentially passtverole in the drama.
The Embassy made him surrender his passport.
He examined my face carefully before handing back my passport.
We had 1o queue for agesatpassport control.
Into (figurative) The gold medal is his passport into prafessional bazing.
Please supply ¢ validuser password.
You must give the password before they'll let you in.
Many modern festivals can be traced back to an ancient past.
It all happened in the distant past.
We'e going to have to Stop living in the past and invest in new technology if the firm is to survive.
Those memories belong tothe pastand Ido’twant tothink about them.
Memoriesfrom the past came flooding ‘back to him.
Don't worry about it—it's all in the past now.
In an effort to ‘make a complete break with the past, she sold everything and wentabroad.
The uncovering of the burted town gives us @ unique glimpse of the past.
The old market is @ living link with the past, unchanged for hundreds of years.
Few remnants remain of the city's glorious past.
Political parties cannot escape from.
The counselling helped Dan toput the past behind him.
Intolto Mix the sugar mixture to a smooth paste.
Mix the flour with enough water toform a thick paste.
Eating out is the national pastime in France.
Fighting is populor pastime among ‘some of the tawn’s bays.
Cycling is an enjoyable pastime for people of all ages.
Bake until the pastry is crisp and golden.
Cut the Jilo pastry into 10cm strips.
Line the tin with the pastry.
Brush the pastry with a little water.
He has a small bald patchon thecrown of his head.
The veluet curtains were faded in patches.
There were some patches of clear biue sky.
We found a nice patchof grass tosit on.
The team has hit a purple patch, with nine wins from their last tengames.
The local provision of Jucilities is decidedly patchy.
Attend- ‘anceat these matches has been rather patchy recentiy.
In 1643 Bain filed a patent for his fax machine.
Genetically engineered plants can be protected by patent.
Jused if details of the item have already been released tothe ‘public.
In 1995 he was granted a patent for his in- ‘vention.
Edison took out a patenton the light bulb.
The itemis Patent Pending No.
Follow this path for about 100 metres, and it's on your right.
That path goes down to thesea.
The path follows the stream for quitea way.
The path left the river bank and wound its way into the woods.
Then the path zig-zags steeply uphillforawhile.
The path is clearly marked.
The pilot was instructed to change hisflight path.
He steered a path through the crowd.
Scientists can trace the path of the tornado.
The car pulled right across the path of another vehicle.
She stepped into thepath of an oncoming lorry.
Footsteps had scored a diagonal path through the snow.
Hemoved quickiy to block her path to thedoor: # PHRASES everything in sbisth’s path The tornadodestroyed everything in its path.
Her education followed the usual well-worn path of rich youngsters in the 1930s.
His feet were now firmly on the path to success.
The path of true love is never easy.
They thanked him for showing so much patience.
It is quite clear that they are outof patience with me.
Ifind it hard to keep my patience with them.
Above all, fishing requires great patience.
Thechildren were beginning to trymy patience.
Our patience was finally rewarded and we got the band's autographs.
Shelistened with infinite patience to his excuses.
He has little patience for pecple who don't work.
Thefans were losing patience with the team.
These endless meetings are enough to tax the patlence of a saint.
Aids, cancer, diabetic, heart, etc.
He only takes private patients.
The patient was admitted to hospital yesterday.
The patient has a severe mental condition.
These patients are responding well to the new drug.
She's been extremely patient about it all.
He was endlessly patient with the children.
The Italians flew regular patrols over the desert.
Britain can maintain continuous patrol of the seas with only three submarines.
They sent out four-man patrols to scautthearea.
The BBCis a major patronof thearts.
The rain pattered down softly.
Footsteps pattered across the floor sgainst, slong The child's feet pattered along the landing.
Rain pattered lightly an the windouw.
The jumper has a geametric patternon it.
He had arranged the glasses in a patternon the table.
There is 110 set pattern for these meetings.
The averall pattern of our life changes little.
Their actions fallow a very predictable pattern.
Similar patterns areemergingall aver Eastern Europe.
Engiish spelling ~of patterns of behaviour patterned ad.
In the pause that followed, I noticed that he was shaking.
In althe ~ Everyane nodded in agreement in the pauses.
He read very slowly and with frequent pauses.
She read the whale text without a pause.
There was a long pause before he spoke ‘again.
Shepaused a moment and then walked away.
He spoke for two hours and barely paused for breath.
She paused deliberately, her eyes ‘holding his.
Pausing only to put out her cigarette, she left the room.
Just pause to think before giving me your answer.
She had sore feet from walking on hard pavements all day.
The car mounted the pavement and crashed into @ lamp post.
There wasa car parkedon the pavementand we couldn’t get by.
He has taken leaveon haif pay.
The workers are demanding their back pay.
The job affers good rates of pay and excellent conditions.
He's at the top of his company's pay scal.
Women are eligible for 16 weeks maternity leave on full pay.
St e pays her workers very well.
You can expect to pay upwards of 5200 a night at this exclusive hotel.
It is for the courts to decide who is liable to pay damages.
The company was ordered to pay the five workers £5 000 in compensation each.
He was made bankrupt for failing to pay debts totalling over £2 million.
The revenue will be used to help pay for environmental improvements.
Mac had killed Caroline, then he wes going to make him Dpay the price.
She wouldn't let me pay for my ticket.
Howmuch did you pay for your new car?to We pay £200a week to our landiord.
Taxation should be based on ability topay.
Cheques should be made payable to Brighton Borough Council.
Immediately Thisamount is payable immediately.
No tax is payable on these earnings.
We may have todefer payment for a week.
In~She wrote out a cheque in payment of the fees.
He was released on payment of the ransom.
The hostel requires full payment in advance.
All families of the crash victims will receive a one-aff payment of £100000.
My client was unable to meet her rent payments.
It was my job to collect payment for-the trip.
The country is in a state of relative peace after ten yearsaf Jfighting.
An uneasy peace prevailed in the first days of the ceasefire.
This must not be allowed to hold up the peace process.
The president is visiting the country on a peace mission.
Although the two countries were officially at peace, fighting continued.
England fi- ‘nally made peace with France.
She finally found inner peace and happiness.
The peace of the afternoon was suddenly shattered by a police siren.
She stopped shouting, and peace reigned supreme once again.
Her father s at peace (= dead) now.
For the first time inmonths, shefelt calm and at peace with the world.
The island isa ‘haven of peace and tranquillity.
The comDputer comes with a three-year guaranteefor peace of mind.
The aims of the organization are wholly peaceful.
We looked up at the rocky peaks towering aboveus.
The influx of tourists ‘hasreached its summer peak.
Production Is rising back towards ts 1999peak.
Her performance is just past its peak.
The crisis was now at its peak.
Athis peak he was the best player inthe world.
Sheis at the peak of her popularits.
The party's numbers reached a peak of 40 000in 2001.
You want your hair to look in peak condition.
Economic life moves tn cycles of peaks and troughs.
The bishop was welcomed (o the church witha peatof bells.
The bells of the cathedral rang out their loud peal.
The meat tasted rather peculiar.
These problems are by no means peculiar to this country.
The area has a few local Dpeculiarities.
To stop the machine push the foot pedal.
Some guitar players tend to overuse the wah-woh pedal.
Her foot was working the pedal of the sewing machine.
He pedalled Jfuriously up the hill.
She pedalled away asfastasshe could.
He pedalled along the lane and upthe hill.
Hergford cattle have a long pedigree.
Thechampionsreally ‘shoted their pedigree today.
These trees have pedigrees stretching back thousands of years.
I'm going to have a pee.
The film gives us a peep behind the curtain at Broadwoy musical.
Into a peep into the private life of world leader ~through Itook a peep through the keyhole.
She was tempted to peep at the letter: through Thechild peeped througha crack in the door.
She was rejected by her peer group.
Children often take up smoking becausef peer pressure.
They adopt behaviour that is more socially acceptableamong thelr peers.
NoTE Aristocratic titles first, second, etc.
Earl of Lauderdale be created/made, become~ Shewas made a baroness in 1992.
Hewas succeeded as third Baron Northwick by his nephew.
Insid ‘out, up, upwards A face was peering down at him.
His pale blue eyes peered anxiouslyat Vic.
She peered round into the farmyard.
She peered out of the windou.
Birkeit was looking distinctly pecved.
Maisie seemed peeved by this question.
She hammered in the steel tent pegs.
The score is kept by inserting pegsintoa board.
This pen won't write.
My pen'’s run out (= has no more ink).
He claims hewas unfoirly penalized.
They made him promise, under penalty of death.
He threatened stiffer penalties on young offenders.
He's now paying the penalty for his misspent youth.
Peaple who lose their jobs aresuffering the penalties for longer periods.
Youmustaccept the penalty for your rash be- ‘haviour:~of It's justone of the penalties of fume.
They were leading until Cole gave away a penaliy.
We were unlucky notto geta penalty.
Owen scored fromafirst-half penaly.
Thet won, thanks to a late penalty from Fry.
Hedevoted his Iife to helping the poor asa penance for his past crimes.
She knelt at her mother's Jeetin penance.
He decided to do public penance for hissins.
The sunlight hardly penetrated the inner room.
Thenews slowly penetrated his consciousness.
These socolled secret societies wereeasily penetrated by intelligence agents.
The cold seemed to penctrate his bones.
Cut twoslashes on each side of thefish toallow heat to penetrte.
Into It is not yet known how deeply the radiation has penetrated into the soil.
The light could not penetrate through the thick curtains.
The dust had penetroted to all corners of the room.
Our aim is fo achieve greater market penetration.
He died penniless in Poris.
Laura found herself virtually penniless.
The legatdispute left them penniless.
Hedraws his persion at the post office.
She lives on her penSton and her savings.
Heis nowretired and on a pension.
The local tourist board i trying to attract more people to the toun.
Arab, Japanese, Slav, etc.
Inon, season sth with, sprinkle He put some pepper on his steak.
Add salt and pepper to taste (= in the quantity preferred).
Babies are weak and vulnerable in the presence of huge shapes that they can only dimily perceive.
Risks are perceived differently by different people.
The industricl bias of canal building can be readily percetved by looking at Figure 7.
The General's words were perceived s a threat by neighbouring countries.
It is widely percetved as a women’s health problem, but it does alsoaffectmen.
Overseas earnings ac- <ounted for 9% of the total last year.
Their hare of the vote reached 6.
Al the verbs in the following collocate groups may be followed by by, from or to plus per cent.
Prajitability is down from 16% 10 12.
In 40% of all cases, the parents ‘hadno idea of their child's problem.
Only 10% of the teenagers agreed with this tatement.
ProJits rose by more than 50% last year: growth of 10, 20, etc.
Precent, in the bottom/top 10, 20, etc.
His son was in the top 2% of the university’s students.
New cars useabout 35% less fuel by the year 200110, 20, etc.
The tribe’s land now amounts to around 50% of the total lond area.
The area as a high percentage of unemployed men.
Financial indicators ~be down/up With the share price down ot 234p, it might betime to start buying.
The CAC indiex was up 18.
Consumer confidence reached a 30.
Second quarter sales stood at £18 biltion.
The 100 Share Index remained unchanged at 5297.
The share gained 19cents tocloseat 4.
Profit margins sufered when the company lowered Prices toremain competitive.
Value for currencies), jump, rise, rocket, shoot up, ‘skyrockat, soar (+ by, from, to or no preposition) Earnings per share climbed from 3.
The pound has increased in valuerelative to the euro.
Profits have shot up by a staggering 25%.
Oil prices have skyrocketed.
Banana exports crashed nearly 50%.
The pound fell to @ 14year low against the dollar.
Net income plummeted 0 USD 3.
Thisfigure can be expressed as a percentage of the total.
Unemployment hos fallen by two percentoge points this month.
Insurance contributions are poid ot a fixed percentage rate on all eornings.
The numbers are relatively low tn percentage terms.
His lips curved in abarely perceptiblesmile.
We need t0 gaina dlearer perception of how young people feel about the problem.
These developments hordty offected the publc perception of thecrisis.
He's very perceptive about people.
The hotel was perched ‘precariously on a steep hillsde.
The birds perched on nearby buildings.
Special pageat MUSIC perfect adj.
Hove's position makes it perfect for touring.
The treaty is far from perfect, but it s clearly the way foruward.
Theday seemed perfect for a picnic.
She strives for perfection in everything.
The dress fitted to perJection.
The building became the model of perfction that architects sought to emulate.
She sometimes stayed up painting all night in her pursuit of perfection.
He duly performed his own halfof the bargain and expected the others todo likewise.
The company has been performing strongly over the past year.
The car performed poorly at high speeds.
The group will be performing live on tonight's show.
The two artists have never performed together before.
The play was first publicly performed in 1872.
Tvenever seen this play performed before.
Performing arts write~ He's written a new West End musical.
Weare proud to present the play ‘Rocket to the Moon".
Thedrama group is doing a show.
She s directing Verdi's opera‘La Traviota’ at La Scala nextyear actin, appearin, performin, sing i, star in~ Hestarred in the West End hit musical"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat’.
We had no time to rehearse for the play.
Thaven't been to the theatre for ages.
Have you seen that new production of ‘Macbeth'? ~open “The Nutcracker’ opens in December: ~play, run ‘The show has been playing to packed houses.
The show ran for years on Broadway.
The musicalcloses this week after a record number of perjormances.
The play folded after poor reviews.
The party are dreading a repeat performance of their defeat in the lastelection.
The course airms (o develop the children's appreciation of music in performance.
The recording gives the most convincing performanceof Stravinsky's Riteof Spring’ to date.
He got top marks for overall academic performance.
The team put in an excellent performanceat the World Cup.
Ophelia ~from The Jilm has a great performance from Jack Lemmon.
Sales forecasts were based on past performance.
The star performer of thematch was Bill Holland who scored 25 poins.
She’s a seasoned concert performer.
The president was ¢ polished television performer.
She dabbed some perfume on her wrists.
She recked of cheap perfume.
He caught a foint whiff of her expensive French perfume.
The lilies release their heady perfume in the evening.
The perjume of the roses filled the room.
All oboard were in grove perilof drowning.
We face the immedite peril of ‘being bought out by another compeny.
Theriver markstheeastern ‘perimeter of our land.
We walked round the perimeter of the prison.
They demonstroted just outside the perimeter of the embassy.
There's a small shop on the perimeter of thecamp.
The offer is only avatlable for a limited period.
You have been paid for the full period of your employment with us.
The customer has the right to cancel the contract during the seven-day cooling-off period.
You con use the software free for a30day triol period.
Ingfthroughout the~ during the intervening period for a~ We lived in Caracas for a brief period.
Iniwithin althe~ ‘Sales have gone up in the last-five-year period.
There will be a reduced bus service over the Christmas period.
Changes were manitored over a period of two months.
Committee members will not be elizible for relection within a period of tuo yeors.
Public spending was cut during his period of office.
Try breaking your period of study into 20-minute blocks.
The bolance must be poid within an ogreed periodaf time.
Twas thirteen when Istorted my periods.
Mony fresh foods are highly perishable.
Noteat CRIME permanent adj.
We decided to make the arrangement permanent.
This is perfectly permissible under the new regulations.
Staff may not leave early without the express permission.
They chopped the trees down without having been granted the necessary permission.
He was not allowed 1o leave the city without the prior permission of the authorities.
You will need to obtain planning permission if you want to extend your house.
The information was pubtished with the full permission of Amnesty Internationa.
The council refused planning permission for the erection ofa block of flats.
The illustrations arereproduced by kind permission of the British Library.
Entryis by permit only.
You can't park here withouta permit.
They applied fora permit for a street demanstration against university fees.
Development is not normally permitted in conservation areas.
The bill was designed to permit workers to take up to twelve weeks' unpaid leave annually for family reasons.
The axis of the moon will now be exactly perPpendicular to thatof the earth.
Giving these events a lot of media coverage merely perpetuates the problem.
Schools tend to perpetuate the myth that boys are better at sportthan girls.
Gary looked rather perplexed.
Some students returning to the country ‘may face political persecution.
Gomplex She started to havea ‘persecution complex when she couldn't get ajob.
He showed ‘great perseverance by staying in the job.
It may take some perseverance tofind the right people.
Anyone con learn Japanese with perseverance.
His perseverance with the new technique paidoff.
If you persist in upsetting her; I will have to punish you.
The detective stubbornly persisted with his questions.
This situation cannot be allowed to persist.
If symptoms persist for more than a few days, seea doctor:info These practices persisted into the Middle Ages.
The depression persisted through muich of the 1930s.
The snows persisted until thesecond month of the new year.
He achieved success through dogged persistence.
Very The weeds were very persistent.
Some infections can be quite persistent.
She is a warm but very private person.
She's the right person for the job.
The police ‘now realize that they had the wrong person.
What's she like as a person? in~ She appeared in person to collect her prize.
The disciplinary panel will notify the person concerned of lis findings.
Can I speak to the person in charge, Dplease? the person responsible Police think they have found the person responsible for the of muggings.
He developed a splitpersonality after the crash.
Barbara is/has a veryforceful personality.
All candidates have toundergoa personality test.
For the first time she was seeing the more unpleasant aspects of her hushand’s personality.
He has achieved success by the sheer strength of his personality.
Impose/stamp your personality on sth She stamped her personality on the whole programme.
Only authorized personnel have access to the computer system.
That tree is outf perspective.
We can now see things in their true perspective.
Her death put everythingelse into perspective.
When you reach middle age you get a different perspective on life.
The book adopts a historical perspective.
We should view this from the perspective of the people involved.
Let’s get this into perspective.
Great beads of perspiration trickled douwn his forehead.
He wiped the perspiration from his brow.
In My shirt was soaked in perspiration.
Her face was wet with perspiration.
Perspiration ran down his fuce.
He had been working hard and was perspiring profusely.
She was perspiring a little with the heat.
She was easlly persuaded to accompany us.
Dave gently persuaded the fish close enough to belifted aboard the boat.
Theeducation minister personally persuaded the prime minister to rethink.
He somehow persuaded the studio to let him make the film.
He eventually managed to persuade one of the staff to let himin.
Into She was persuaded info buying an expensive dress, of We must persuade the government of the need for change.
They had difficulty in persuading the two sides to sitdown together.
Shedidn’t nead ‘much persuasion.
He refused my offer atirst, but seemed open to persuasion.
She is very charming, andskilled in the art of persuasion.
The meeting is open to people of all political persuasions.
His analysis is in many ways highly persuasive.
Theevidence was not really persuasive enough.
The issues dealt with in the report are highly pertinent to our own situation.
This kind of reasoning is deepy perverse.
She's marrying him ouit of sheer perversity.
He displayed his usual pessimism.
There were good grounds for pessimism about future progress.
These figures look quite pessimistic.
His predictions praved unduly pessimistic.
Police are looking Jfor a.
These birds pravidea ‘useful function in contratling insect pests.
It is claimed that current levels of pesticide do not pose a threat to health.
Traces of pesticide tn thewater were ten times above per misstble levels.
The petition witl be heard tomorraw.
Her petition for divorce was granted.
The district court has opposed the petition by the local electricity company.
The petition opposes the closures.
The petition supports the scheme to rebuild the road.
We're getting up a petition ogainst the ‘proposed building plans.
Local government supports the petition for a new hospital.
My car runs on unleaded petrol.
Weran out of petrol and had to walk to the nearest garage.
The air smelled of petrol.
The ointment is available from pharmacies without prescription.
The period can be divided into three distinct phases.
Society has entered a technological phase of evolution.
During the first phase of expansion staff will mave to the new offices.
In afthe~ In the earliestphase of mental disarder, relatives feel confused.
European economy phenomenal ad.
This plant has truly phenomenal healing powers.
Hisjob is to investigate supernatural phenomena.
The phenomenon occurs during early foetal development.
He called himself a ‘natural philosopher': today we wouldsay a ‘scientist’.
The debate was getting o0 ‘philosophical for me.
Tvy (0 be philosophical aboutit.
Mum's being quite philosophical about the whole thing.
Thenew measures were introduced with noexplanation of the philosophy behind them.
He has a phobia about snakes.
There's a public payphone in re.
She's on the phone at the moment.
If the phone rings, don’t anster it.
She slammed the phone down in a rage.
Mum, you're wanted on the phone.
He was called to the phone ust as he was leaving.
She waits by the phoneall day but he doesn't ring.
His phone is engaged.
The phone suddenty went dead in the middleof our conversation.
The modem links the computer to a phone line.
We keep in contact by phone butwerarely see each other: on the ~ We spoke on the phone the other day.
His most treasured possession is a signed photo of his footballing hero.
The annual hasa good runge of features and colour action photos.
Dhotos have been developed.
The sun rising over the horizon would have made good photo.
The press followed the president round the hospital, waiting for a photo opportunity.
Tell me who everyone is in the photo.
Tinted photographs were an early substitute Jor colour.
This photograph is out of focus.
Send a recent facial photograph of yourself with your application.
Frame the subject in the video vieufinder as you wouldfor astilt photograph.
Thesun rising over the hori- 'zon would havemadea good photograph.
Her photograph appeared in all the papers.
The photograph manages to capture the excitement of theoccasion.
The wing is assembled as shown in the photograph below.
An aerial photograph of the field.
The photographer shot the usual roll of pictures.
Photographer Darren Kidd captured the uniqueatmosphere of the event.
She was, in her own memorable phrase, ‘a woman withouta past'.
Her unfortunatechoiceof phrase affended most of the audience.
He is meticulous in his choice of words and turns of phrase.
The statement was very carefully phrased.
The problem is purely physical, not mental.
The shock of the darkness wasalmost physical.
I'm undergoing regular physiotherapy fora back problem.
Shedoesn’t have the physique for a dancer.
Thereisa piano bar for evening entertainment.
She had her pick of the single men.
Which dosou want? Take your pick.
Names were picked at random out of @ ‘hat.
They picked Jane as the captain.
Rather gingerly, George picked up the tiny bundle.
He picked the pan up carefully by the handle.
Flying pickets arrived from all over thecountry.
They organized a mass ‘picket of the governor’s palace.
Abuse was hurled at workers who crossed the picket line.
Lets have a picnic down by theriver.
We t00k a picnic and spent the day watching theraces.
The book has simple storles and pictures to colour in.
Igot some good picturesof the procession.
Ican’t see you in the picture.
Thestory istold in pictures.
The book gives a vivid picture of life in Victorian England.
The programme was interesting but it didn't give the full picture.
My visits enabled me to build up a broad picture of the culture.
Through Interviews and old ‘photos we put together a composite picture of lifein thevillagea hundred yearsago.
The report paints a dismal picture of the government's economic record.
They'retrying to build upa detailed picture f the incident.
The igures reveal a disturbing pictureof the state of aur schools.
The smell of the sea conjures up pictures of children plasing on the beach.
What emerges is a complex pictureafjamily rivalry.
Tie children are making ‘mud pies i the garden.
The plate smashed into little pieces on the stane floor.
The book breaks the informatian into bile-sized pieces.
She makes her sculptures out of odd ‘piecesof scrapmetal.
Into pieces The cake just broke into pieces wien I cut it.
My ald dictionary s falling t pieces.
W'll need to take the engine apart, piece by piece.
Can I take this igsaw to pieces?tear sth intolto pieces She tare the letter inta tiny pieces.
The best pieces include three paintings by ElGreco.
This Is an effective plece of writing.
They are exhibiting twa important pieces by Calder:~fora piecefor symphony orchestra, choir and four saloists~from Sheread a piece framAlicein Wanderland'.
T've put the books into three separate piles.
Just add that application to the pile.
The maney lay amid a pile of unapened letters.
The wasking is in a pile n the floor.
She closed the magazine andthrewt back on the ple.
I've got pilesof work todo.
The house was reduced t0 a pile of rubbl.
The government is doing litle to help thase on the bottom of the social pile.
Wepiled the boxes up neatls.
She piled food anto aur plates.
There was a ban on political protests during the pilgrimage.
He was on his annual pilgrimage to Mecca when he fell ill.
His parentsmade a pilgrimage ta Lourdes.
The shrine wasan object of pilgrimage.
Trie doctor prescribed her some pillsto help her sleep.
Her doctor put her on thepillat I6.
The roof is supported by eight massive stone plllars.
He drove his motorbike, withme riding pillion.
Tmade the whole journey on (he pillion.
She plumped up the pillows for her sick daughter.
He lay back on his pillows and closed his eyes.
She buried her head in the pillow and wept.
The aircraft was set on automatic pilot.
She worked on automatic pilot, her hands carrying out the necessary movements.
The pilot baled out as the aircraft crashed into the sea.
The air crash is thought to have been caused by pilot errar.
The map hade lotof little pins stuck intoit.
The poster had been pinned onto a lorge wooden board.
Maps were pinned to the walls.
He was pinned down on the foar.
He pinned her against the wall.
His arms were pinned behind his back.
She was pinned helplesslyto the desk.
The difference between the (10 approaches is hard to pin down precisely.
He pinched the leaf between his thumb ‘andforefinger: on He pinched me sherplyon the arm.
My shoes were pinching badly.
The western sky wasglowing pink.
She could feel herself going pink.
With He was pink with anger.
Sheisat the pinnacleof her profession.
With this you cun pinpoint the precise loaation of the sound.
Stress at work was pinpointed as the cause of hisillness.
He could sink a pint fuster than anyone else I knew.
He stood me pint i the pubafter work.
Copper pipeis old in lengihs.
He laid the pipes under the floorbaards.
Insulating your pipes will save on your heating bill.
The pipes will have to pass through thewall.
The pipe from the boiler to the bath.
He knocked out his pipe inthe big glass ashtraz.
Supply sth The pipeline supplies Jordan with 15 per cent of its crude oil.
The pipeline runs through central Mozambigue.
The pipeline links the refinery with theport.
In the ~ (figurative) (- being discussed or prepared) Important changes are already in the pipeline.
He drew his pistal, aimed and fired.
There weretwo of them, both carrying pistols.
He was robbed in his hotel at pistol point.
They extract the mineral from open pits and underground mines.
Hewent down thepit at the ageof fifteen.
There's no more work in these pit villages.
Most boys in the village worked in the pits.
The pitch was invaded by angry fans.
Police could do nothing to stop the pitch invasion.
Off the~ The players have just come off the pitch.
Negotiations aboul his transfer are continuing off the pitch.
He was the best plaser on the pitch today.
Excitement rose to fever piltch the day before the procession.
The instrument isnot tuned to thecorrect pitch.
There was a loud bang and he was pitched.
If they hit any unseen obstacle they would be pitched headlong into the snow.
Estimates have been deliberately itched on the conservative side.
Thetest is pitched at a high GCSE standard.
The price has been pitched quite high.
Her voice was pitched low.
We need to be alert to potential pitfalls.
Trading iz a foreign country can be fraught with pitJalls.
Numerous pitfulls await unsuspecting investors.
Buying property holds many pitfulls for the ‘uniwars.
Shewas full of pityfor him.
We begged him to have pity on us.
Deaf ‘peopledo not want to be seen as objects of pity take pity on b to0k pityon him and allowed him tostay.
The place was lovels, but it was a pity about the weather.
Let's go to that new pizza place tonight.
It wasa terrible place tolive.
Keep your purse in a safeplace.
It's a nice place you've got here.
I've lost my place in the script.
We had dinner at a croiuded place in Soho.
It was held in place with tape.
There will be rain in places.
Into~ She tapped the lid into place.
Some of these fles seem to be out of place.
This is not the place for an argument.
Please state your dateand place of birth.
Tve lost my place in the queue.
He suapped places with me.
He ook the placeof honour on his hostess's right.
Housing occupied @ prominent place in the discussions.
She knows ‘her place.
I'm sorry—1I was forgetting my place.
Tsoon put her in her place.
Dance has acentral place in their culture.
Hewas injured and lost his place in the side.
He was awarded a place at Leeds University.
She got a place on the French course.
She ook third place.
Second place went to the Moroccan athlete.
The books were placed haphazardly on the shelf.
She produced a long stlver whistle and placed it firmly between her lips.
The table was placed centrally.
The hotel is well placed for restauranss, bars and clubs.
There are canles strategically placed—just in case we have another pouer cut.
The boots, neatly placed side by side, were near the bed.
Inside, on, over, under, etc.
Thecompany is ideally placed to win the contract.
Jemphasis, value, blame, etc.
Nearly a third of the popuation died in the Great Plague.
The region has just suffered a plagueaf locusts.
Bubonic plaguestruck London in 1665.
Thecity is suffering a plagueof rats.
The horses galloped across the apen plains.
Cattle move freely across the grassyplain.
Tanzania on althe ~ Nothing grew on the plain.
The dress was absolutely plain, but quite stunning.
The food wasairly plain, but well cooked.
She looked very plain and doudy.
Triey made it plain that they wereagainst the idea.
Within weeks, it became perfectly plain that we were in the grip of a tyrant.
It isall quite plain to me.
The plaintiff claimed that the correct procedures had not been followed.
The plaintiffs obtained an injunction in the High Court.
The government has ambitious plans for prison reform.
The best plan is for me to meet you at the theatre.
Even the bestlaid plans can go wrong.
The moves contravene the peace plan agreed by both sides.
The minister unveiled a new plon for reducing troffic accidents.
Local residents have vowed to fight plans to build a newroad.
The government launched a fiveyear plan aimed at diversifying the economy.
The plan calls for investments totalling $100 million.
The plan contains four main elements.
The president will now press ahead with his plans for reform.
The plan shows the exact location of the house.
The government had originally planned lo launch the review in June.
You will need to plan your shopping carefully in advance.
We must plan for the future.
Everything went exactly as planned.
She caught the first plane out.
The plane was carrying 350 people.
We It by plane for Peking.
I've never flown in a plane.
With practice, anathletecan reach a higher plane of achievement.
Like all talented musicians, he operates on a different plarie from most people.
She believes there is life on other planets.
The trip calls for careful advance planning.
Deciding the agenda is the most vital aspect of premeeting planning.
They give Jree advice on contraception at the family planning clinic.
The industry needs to do some long-term planning.
The scheme is still at the planning stage.
In the~ The festival was four years in the planning.
Planning for future development is vital for thecommunity.
Much of the local plant life has been destroyed by the chemicals.
Carefully plant your cutting in the soil.
Thegarden was planted with rosesand other shrubs.
She planted a kiss squarely on his cheek.
He was determined to keep both feet firmly plantedon dry land.
Hundreds of slaves worked on the plantations.
The local historical society putupa plaqueat thesite of the battle.
Some Latin words were engraved on the plague.
Apply the plaster evenly.
Plaster was peeling off the celling.
Madame Fournier stood in the artist's studio.
Yourarm will have to be in plaster for at least sixweeks.
She atc cverything on her plate.
The driver was arrested for having false number plates on his car.
The children's standard of reading seems to have reached a platea (= they are not making any more progress).
The king mounted the plaiform to loud cheers.
Union leaders shared the plotform with business leaders in a debate n the future f the industry.
He ran along the platform to catch the train.
The train at platform 3 is the 13.
The next train to depart from platform 2 is the 10.
They fought the election on & platform of eco- ‘namic reform.
Their friendship remained purely Pplatonic.
He did nat thin'k it plausibie that oll the difJerences could beexplained in this way.
There was noway the story could be made to sound even remotely plausibie.
This explanation Sitsthe foctsand is psychologicaily plausible.
Children spend hours at play.
Ionly said itin play(=not seriously).
The children always performa nativity play every Christmas.
The play is reviewed in most of today's papers.
He was sent off for foul play.
Rain stopped play 40 minutes into thematch.
The boll isstillin play.
He kicked the balloutof play.
At close of play he had scored 38 not out.
The other children wouldn't let ‘him pla.
United are difficult 10 play against.
Tve never played John at tennis.
She has played in every match this season.
The band will be playing live in the studio.
He's a poor player, but he triesvery hard.
These boots are for the professional rather than for the average player.
Their firm is major player in the London Pproperty market.
She started a ‘playgroup in her oun house.
He'll grow in conJidenceonce hestarts at playgroup.
She goes shopping while her little girl's at Dplaygroup.
Despite pleas Jfrom his mother, the gunman refused to give himself up.
Hospital visiting hours were extended in response to pleas from patients.
The director of thecharity made an impassioned plea for help.
Her solicitor entered a pleaofguilty on her behalf.
She was almost pleading with him.
They pleaded for mercy.
He pleaded not guilty tothe murder pleasant adj.
His colleagues were perfectly pleasant and Sriendly but they had their own lives t lead.
It was not a particularly pleasant experience.
It was a pleasantenoughday’s journey.
He has always been extremely pleasantto me.
The result pleased usenormousls.
Some children are very difficult to please.
He's always very eager to please.
The planning policy fuiled to please anyone.
Some people are impossible to please.
She seemed surprised and not atall pleased to see him.
He laughed, half pleased and half resentful.
They seemed pleased enough with the result.
Tam always pleased to ‘hear from former students.
She seemed ‘pleased atour success.
Youmust bepleased by their confidence in you.
I'm very pleased for you both.
We ‘are immensely pleased with this result.
It ‘glves me enormous pleasure to welcome my next guest.
The audience nodded with quist pleasure at her remark.
Children find endless pleasure in playing with water.
He gained vicarious pleasure from watching people laughing and joking.
Some people read for pleasure, and others read to study.
His eyes litup with pleasure.
She was derivinga perverse pleasure from his discomfort.
They took ‘great pleasure in each other's company.
Dleasure of meeting youagain.
She enjoys the simple pleasures of fe.
Priests promiseto foregothe pleastres of the lesh.
He has been sleeping rough in the streets to highlight the plight of the homeless.
The police claim to have uncovered a plot by terrorists to assassinate the president.
She has constructed a complicated plot, witha large castof characters.
There are several unexpected twists i the plot before the murderer is revealed.
They own a fiveacre plotof land.
The plots each measure 10 ‘metres by 20metres.
He was arrested on suspicion of plotting against the king.
Taylor plotted with his daughter to muurder her husband.
The positions of the archaeologlcal finds areaccurately plotted.
Greenhouse temperature can be plotted against plant growth.
They need two horses to pull these heavy ploughs.
The iron is Jitted with a three-pin plug.
They're going to have to put in new plumbing.
The river takes a headlong Pptunge into a maelstrom of rocks and boulders.
He finally took the plunge and gave in his notice.
The pool was declared open and eager swimmers plunged in.
The bus came off the road and plunged down an embankment.
He plunged froma tenth floor window.
She plunged straight into her stors.
The car had plunged off the road.
Please read the safety leaflet in the seat pocket in front of you.
Forged passports were found ina secret pocket in the suitcase.
Fe went through all his pockets Iocking for his kes.
She reached in her pocket and pulled out her phone.
Once again club members have had to dip into their pockets (= spend their own money) to buy new equipment.
The security guard made them emply thelr pockets.
She stuffed the money intoher pocket and walked out.
He walked past with his collar turned up and his hands thrust into his pockets.
We filled our pockets with apples.
Dishonestofficials have been lining their pockets with publicfunds.
My pockets were bulging with loose change.
In thelyour~ My wallet was in the beck pocket of ‘my jeans.
He took a few coins out of his Ppocket.
In pockats He stood there, hands in pockets.
Government forces ‘aremopping up the last pockets of resistance.
He dedicated the poemn to his mother.
The Preludz, Wordsworth describes his boyhood in the Lakes.
These river banks have inspired poetsjor manycenturies.
The plece ends witha truly poetic slow movement.
His writing is rather self-consciously poetic.
Modernist, Romantic, symbolist, etc.
At school we hod to learn lot of poetry by heart.
In~an essay on imagery in poetry poignant adj.
The presence of the rest of the family made John's absence even ‘more poignant.
Ifound his speech deeply poignant.
The possibility of an interest rate cutisamajor talking point in the City.
She made some interesting poinis.
They argued the pointfor hours.
He had trouble getting his point across.
That proves my point.
The basic pointistha .
It look me a few minutes to get the point.
Thaf's beside the point.
His remarks were brief and to the point.
That's the whole point.
It doesn't have any point to it.
There's absolutely no point in complainingnow.
Wedlscussed the finer poinis of growing roses.
He had reached the high point of his career.
There comes a point in most people’s lives when they want to settle down.
At one point he looked like winning on the~of on the point of departure to the~of We worked all night to the point of collapse.
Iagree with youup t0a point.
At this point we can't giveyou afinal answer.
This proved to be the turning point of thegame.
If's set point to Henman.
Interest rates fell by one percentage point.
Ll the verbs in the following collocate groups may be followed by by, from or to plus point.
Sometimes the word by is left out.
Nikkel index rose 710 points to 14694.
His popularity rose by 18 points in public opinion polls.
The index was down only 4.
The toddler pointed to the toy he wanted.
She pointed with her finger at the map.
The gun was pointing straight at me.
You must cross that field," she said, pointing the way.
His wife pointed out tartly that none of them were exactly starving.
She was ar pains to point out that she was no newcomer to the area.
Shetried in vain to point out to him the unfairnessof thesituation.
Fragments of woven cloth at thesite, clearIy point to the production of textiles.
The evidence all seems topoint to one conclusion.
The examiners comments Include pointers Jfor future study.
His symptoms gave no obvious pointer t0 a possible diagnosis.
Sheconsidered it pointiessto plan in too much detail.
He always seens to take the opposite point of view to me.
Ty to see the situation from my point of view.
From a purely personal point of view, Id like to see cars banned from the city centre.
The bool: ells the story of a murder investigation from the point of view of the chief suspect.
She never lost her social poise, however awkward thesituation.
She hesitated briefly but quickly regained her poise.
His manner was perJfectly poised between gravity and teasing.
Peter hesitated, his hand poised above the telephone.
They hovered by the door; poised for flight.
The tuwo countries were poised on the brink of war.
She had laced his drink with poison.
She had put poison in his wine.
The farmer had put down some rat poison.
The leavesof yew treesare poisonousto cattle.
Public opinion is sharply polarized on this issue.
In this period politics became polarized ‘between extremeright and ft.
The north magnetic pole lies to the west of the ‘geographic North Pole.
The meridian is an imoginary line drawn from pole fopole.
In temperament, sheand her sister are poles apart (= completely different).
Police have appealed for witnesses tocome forward.
He spent the night in a police cell after his arrest.
Nine arrests were made in a series of police raids across thecity.
There was a huge police presence at the demonstration.
All prosecution witnesses were given police profection.
Some protesters managed to break through the police cordon.
No arrest has been made, buta man is helping the police with their enquiries.
The robbery may have been carried out with the help of a bent policeman.
She went off to Jfetch a policeman.
The government followed a policy of restraint in public spending.
The company operates astrict nosmoking policy.
The company’s policy of expansion has created many new jobs.
It is a matter of company ‘policy that we do not disclose the names of clients.
The policy covers (you for) accidental loss or damage.
Apply polish with a soft brush.
You'll need to give your shoes a good polish.
Use acetone to remove nail polish.
His manner was coolly polite and impersonal.
She was scrupulously politeto him.
If's no more than common politeness to hear what she has to say.
Her notural politeness could not hide the distress inher voice.
They accepted the food more out of politeness than because they were hungry.
They greeted their visitor with formal politeness.
His veneer of politeness concealed a ruthless determination.
This whole issue has become highly Ppolitical.
She was active in local politics for many years.
He argued that it was not practical politics to abolish prlvate schools.
They took the view that Casper was playing power politics with their jobs at stake.
Consensus politics places a high value on existing political institutions.
They went into politics in the hopeaf changing saciety.
He abandoned politics and went into business.
In their world palitics dominates everything.
His manners were as mild as his politics were extreme.
Let's not talk politics now.
Exit polls suggest a big Labour majority, but the true picture will anly be known after the count.
I'tooka straw pall amang my colleagues to find out how many can use chopsticks.
With a week a g0 until polling day, the Canservatives are still behind in the polls.
Labour's lead in the polls.
The country goes (a the polls on May 7th toelect local councillors.
Counting will begin as ‘soonas the pollsclose.
Shewas defeatedat the polls.
Hay fever sufferers ‘have a worse time when the pollen count is high.
The pollen record shows that this plant was never commanan the island.
The air is heavily polluted with traffic Sumes.
The summit ended with a joint pledge to limit pollution.
Thecomputer model assesses the tkely impact of new pollution sources.
Environmentalists say there s a high risk of pollution from the landfill site.
The pond is drained every year.
She swam across the pond.
There are goldfish in the pond.
Her sunslasses had fallen inta the pond.
The dog raced around ta the other sideaj the pond.
She pondered for amoment before replying.
He watked out of the room, leaving me to ponder what he had just said.
This was something I had been pondering ‘about for some time.
Pit ponfes were used in mast mines ot the turn of the last century.
We gave the children an inflatable paddling pool for Christmas.
He swarm three lengths of the pool.
In aithe ~ Thechildren waded in the shallow rock pools.
The body lay in @ dark pool of blood.
The cark came out witha loud pop.
In~ He wasan importont figure in pop during the seventies.
He was granted ‘an audience with the Pope.
He was one of those people who are instantly popular.
The primeminister remained personally populardespite his party's disostrous slide in the opinion polls.
These animals are quite popular as pets.
This area is immensely populor with tourtsts.
The Ailm deserves its popularity.
Organic produce appears 1o be gaining inpopularity.
They are running neck-and-neck in the popularity stakes.
Trie current system has never enjoyed popularity among teachers.
She enjoys huge ‘popularity with the voters.
Increase/a rise/a surge/an upsurge in popularity the recent upsurge In the popularity of folk music.
The prison was populated with people of every trade and profession.
Most of the economically active population is employed in the primary Industries.
The ‘general population ws in favour of the Notional Health Service.
The popu lation now stands at cbout 4 million.
The majority of the population live in these two towns.
Noreliable population estimates exist.
She stood in the porch and rong the doorbell.
The vessel reached port thenext morning.
Bad weather kept the ship in port for three moredays.
Our next port of call was Piraeus.
Some Sherpas act as guides and porters for mountaineering expeditions.
On arriving at the station, we hailed e porter 1 carry the bags.
Heasked for a double portion of chips.
Ancient jamily portraits ‘hung on the walls of the staircase.
The museum collection vividly portraysthe heritage of 200years of canals.
He is best remembered for his chilling portrayalof Norman Bates in'Psycha'.
She shows a full range of emotions in her portrayal of an ambitious politician.
His novelisavivid portrayal of lfe in a mining community.
The guards took up their positions on either side of the door.
Jostle for Hordes of Jjournalists Jostled for position outside the conference hall.
Fix the pieces in position before gluing them together into~ Please get into position.
Nakata hadto play outof position when the defender was injured.
It Pputmein an awkward position when heasked me to keepa secret.
Their obuious desperotion strengthensour bargaining position.
We may be in a position to help you.
The country'safficial position is that there isno fomine in thearea.
He took an extreme position on religious matters.
The firm gained a dominant position in the market.
The radiologist firmly positioned Phoebe in front of a ferocious-looking machine.
The ‘markers were not posltioned centrally.
The company is uniquely positioned to compete inforelgnmarkess.
Policemarksmen were positioned on the roof.
I'm absolutely positive it was him.
She seemed fairly positive about it.
They had exclusive possession af the property astenans.
Wegal, unlawtul They werecharged with unlawful possession of firearms.
The team was struggling to retain possession of the ball.
The judge made a possession order against the tenant.
Drtvers must be in possession of a current driving licence.
They have in their possession same very valuable pictures.
Anyone i full possession of the facts would sce that we are right.
The sports car was her proudest possession.
He carried all his worldly possessions in an old suitcase.
Nick'sstarting to ‘getpossessiveand jealous.
There's a strong possibility that it will rain (oday.
There is a faint possibility that he might have got the wrong day.
The club s facing the real possibility of relegation.
We don't want to risk the possibility of losing all our money.
Some reserves were named to cover the possibility of withdratoals.
She was quick to see the possibilities for ‘making money that her new skills gave her: ~ of Careful checks will reduce the possibility of unpleasant surprises.
The course offers a wide range of possibilities for personal development.
New technology has made it posstble to communicate more easil ) think sth In those circunstances, thought it possible towork with him.
It Is just possible that he's still here.
It's theoretically passible, but highly unlikely ever to happen.
Please come as soon as possible.
Tdlike the money back by next week if possible.
Isent t by first-class post.
In the~ My application for the job is n the post.
Orders will be sent by returnof post.
If you hurry you'll just catch the last post.
He was relieved of his postwhen he wasfound tohave accepted bribes.
He quit his post as chief executive, ~of She applied for thenew postof training officer.
Theguard took up hispostatthe gate.
The sentries had deserted thelr posts.
The gun crew were at their posts.
Supright piece of wood, efc.
Hesteereda shot becuween the keeper and the near pos.
The first horse past the post wins the race.
Ihad to pay £4 postage.
Add £3to each order to cover postage.
It costs £60, plus £5or postage.
Allprices include postageand packing.
Write your ansuwers on a posicard.
The police ‘have put up wanted posters describing the man.
His walls are plastered with posters of rock stars.
Huge election posters suddenly went up alt over the toun.
Detectives have launched massive poster campaign to help in the search for the two killers.
She was unable to take up the London posting.
She has now accepted posting as ambassador to Latvia.
He recetved a posting to Japan as soon as his training was finished.
They'redoing a post-mortem on her today.
You can buy stampsat the post office.
The event has been postponed indefinitely due to lack of interest.
The inevitable conftict was merely postponed till the next meeting.
Our visit had been postponed for several weeks.
The maich has been postpored from Wednesday night to Friday night.
The meeting has ‘been postponed until next week.
They are calling for a further postponement of the electiondate.
The death of one of the candidates forced ‘postponement of the voting until 1 June.
She has very good posture.
He satina posture of absolute respect.
Cook gently in a covered poifor 310 4 hours.
He could hear the pot bubbling on thesstove.
Local people kill these animals for the poL (= 10 eat).
Infinto althe ~ Put all the ingredients in a large pot.
She refilled the teapot with boiling water.
Plonts in pots require more water than you might think.
You aren't using your computer to ts full potential.
This young man has enormous potential.
John Cadbury could see the potential for his product.
They were among the first companies to exploit the ‘potential of the Internet.
Signing for @ 0p club would enable kim to fulil his true potential.
She showed great potential as an actor.
He rears rabbits and ‘poultryin the garden.
Helen poured out two stiff drins.
Her lips pouted sulkily.
She pouted prettily at him.
Caught i the poverty trap, they are unable to save money for business ventures.
In~ Most of the population lives in grinding pov erts.
His work displays apoverty of imagination.
Into The seeds are ground intoa fine powder before use.
The tablets are also available in powder form.
The Crown prince assumed power in his father's place.
They held power for 18 years.
The new law delegates ‘many af thesepowers to school governors.
They fell from power in 1992.
The party's power base s in the industrial north of the country.
They held us in their pouer.
The government ‘has limited legal powers over television.
The war brought abouta shift in the balance of pocer.
Jfather’s position of power and influence in the home the power behind the throne (- the persan who is really in control) People say that the prime minister's wife is the power behind the throne.
The company was too smallto hold two such power-hungry men.
Having served in four governments, he has the greatest staying power of any politician today.
They belicve he has supernatural powers.
Hewants to change the world through the power of prayer.
Dali was at the peck of his powers.
He did everything in his power to find us someuwhere to live.
The plane was still climbing at full power.
They use these streams to generate power for the mill.
Wind power is used to drive the machinery.
She had a voice powerful enough not to need a microphone.
They were completely powerless against such alarge group.
Theyfelt powerless in the foce of disaster practicable adj.
We will do this as soon as is reasonably practicable.
Ipassed the written exam but failed the practical.
For entirely practical reasons, pragmatlf children are rot invited.
She always adopted a severely ‘practical tone.
Jcan'twait to putwhat Tve lecrned into practice.
I'll be able to get ina bitof practice this weekend.
This chapler gives students practice in using adjectives.
His accent should improvewith practice.
In The children need more practice in tying their shoelaces.
It will be good practice for later when you have to makespecches in public.
The practice of community policing was introduced in the 1970s.
Established practices are difficult to modify.
She wanis {0 go into general practice.
He had been suspended from practice, pending legal investigations.
Ske has opened new practice in the town.
He runs a successful legal practice in Ohio.
She's practising hard for the piano competition.
Our approach is essentially pragmatic.
They're pragmatic about the spending cuts.
The critics were full of praise for the film.
He was unstinting in his praise of his teacher.
The play has attracted universal praise.
This book is beyond praise.
He wrote many poems in praise of his wife.
The decision also won praise from local people.
The French manager ted the charus of praise for the German team.
The patients interviewed ‘had rothing but praise for the hospital staff sing sb's praises The newspapers were singing the president's praises.
He praised all his staff highly.
Her achicvements in this field have been rightly praised.
The defeated captain was quick topraisethe winning team.
They praised him for his cooking.
She was pushing her baby along in a pram.
He thought if he prayed ‘hard enough God might eventually listen.
He prayed for rain.
Iprayedto God for guid- ‘ance.
She asked the priest to pray with her.
The congregation ‘bowed their heads.
Let's pray Mick doesn’t find out.
Let us remember them i our prayers today.
In The congregation nelt in praer.
We had family prayers before breakfast.
Students are required to attend pravers twice a week.
I'said a prayer of grateful thanks to God.
The letter was the anster to her prayers.
You'll be quite safe if you observe certain basic precautions.
We take every precaution to ensure that you have a comfortable journey.
She had to'stay in hospital overnight, just asa precaution.
You should give your schoolwork precedence.
The French kings claimed precedence over those of Spain.
The guests were seated strictly in order of precedence.
This case could could serve as a precedent for others against the tobacco companies.
This lowering of standards sets a dangerous precedent for fiture developments.
The judge based his decision on precedents set during the Middle Ages.
The achievements of this period were without precedent in history.
Many precedents can e found for this decision.
Youare Infinitely precious to me.
You need to use legally precise terms.
You have to be precise about the numbers.
He organized the team with military precision.
Chimps are able to manipulate objects with a high degree of precision.
These itemscannot be dated withany precisian.
Any lack of precision in thecontract could glve rise to a dispute.
We like this approach because it fls in with our own preconceptons.
Most people have preconceptions aboutold age.
Othier companies are in an even worse predicament than ourselves.
In, find yourself in, get into Many joung people find themselves in this predicament.
In afthe ~Now I really was ina dire predicament.
It is not possible ta predict with any certainty what effect this will have.
Few would have dared to predict sucha landslide victory.
Newton's theories allow us to predict the flight of a cricket ball.
We can predict from this information what i likely tohappen next.
This result had been widely predicted by the opinion polls.
England’s defeat in the third test match was sadly predictable.
He asked whether this was predictablefrom previous performances.
The results of the experiment confirmed their predictions.
Our prediction turns out to be correct.
Six hundred workers there lost their jobs today, amid gloomy predictions that there could be worse to come.
Contrary to almost all predictions, however: the government did not full.
Despite earier dire predictions, shares remained stead.
Egg pasta is certainly preferred by many chefs.
Huge maJorities apparently prefer reducing unemployment to fighting inflation.
Wecaneat out if you like, but I wauld prefer to stay in.
Industries still tend to prefer virgin raw materialsto recycled ones.
Death was considered vastly preferable to dishonour.
If's a matter of persanal preference.
Local voters gave Harry Westfirst preference.
Preference is glven (o students wha have passed maths and chemistry.
Ichacse motoruways when driving, for preference.
In~to They bought French planes in preference to British ones.
List the candidates in arderof preference.
She had a difficult pregnancy with her firstchild.
Lower blood pressure is com- ‘mon in early pregnancy.
You will be tested throughout your pregnancy.
Shewas pregnant by a former client.
It's hard to break down old prejudices.
He sot there airing his personal prejudices.
She had never encountered such deep prejudice before.
Reading newspaper reports ‘had unfairly prejudiced the jury in her favour.
She did not disclose evidence thal was likely to prejudice her client's case prejudiced odj.
He's deeply prejudiced ogainst women.
After the usual preliminaries the meeting began.
The two presidents met today, s a preliminary to resuming the peace talks.
She began speaking intensely, without prellminaries.
He considered the strikes a prelude to the great socialist revolution.
In as She was sworn in as premieron 4.
The company is moving to new premises next month.
The police have the power to enter the premises at any time.
Smoking is strictly forbidden on school premises.
Electricity companies pay a premium for renewable energy.
Good student accommodation is at a premium (= difficult to obtain and therefore expensive).
The company places a high premium on customer loyalty.
Intense competition has kept premiums low.
We're struggling to keep up our premiums.
The insurance compony has increased our premiums.
Premiums on mony cors will g0 up thisyear.
Perhaps he had a premonition about what might happen in London.
Their chief preoccupation was how to feed their fomilies.
By now this had become a major preoccupa: tion for him.
It is the initial preparation that takes the time.
He's done a lotof preparation for this meeting.
This simple dish tckes very lttle preparation time.
Get a good night's sleep in preparation for the journey.
Preparations are now in hand to close half the factories.
The family can now go ahead with preparations for the funeral.
He ‘had failed to prepare adequately for the task before him.
The course is designed to prepare graduates for management careers.
Weallset abaut preparing for the party.
Training is a prerequisite for competence.
Recognition isa prerequisite to understanding.
Making such decisions is nat the sale_prerogative of managers.
Yau can af course exercise your preragative ta leave at any time.
The tsar prafected his persanal preragatives.
The drug can no longer be legally prescribed.
The curriculum isrigidly prescribedfrom an early age.
Same drugs are anly available on prescriptian.
She gave him a prescriptian for antibiotics.
The mere presence af children in the roam is enaugh taupset him.
The company now has a strong presencein Germany.
These chemicals cauld indicate the presence of water an the Dplanet.
He acknawledged aur presence witha nadaf his head.
He shauld never have made thase remarks in yaur presence.
She certainly made her presence elt in the boardraam.
There was a strang Palice presence thraughaut the demansiration.
The army maintains canstant presence in the area.
He had a farmidable stagepresence.
It'sa present tausall fram Granny.
The arguments were well researched and clearly presented.
We have tried ta present bath sides of the debate.
Hatel brachures are designed to present the mast attractive aspects of the hatel.
He likes ta present himself as a radical palitician.
Hepresented the informatian ta his calleagues.
She was nat exactly gaod: laaking, but perfectly presentable.
The president made a presentatian ta the businesswoman of the year.
The cauncil has placed apreservation order on the building.
Most of the buildings areinan excellent state of preservation.
Our products contain no artificial preservatives or colourings.
Moke sure the panels are treated with a wood preser vative.
We were ancxious to preserve the original characler of the house.
The Act contained provisions designed to preserve the stotus quo.
The prison is preserved as a tourist attraction, for The collection has been sold to the British Museum where it will be preserved for the nation.
They were thrilled to discover a perfectly preserved specimen of Romon pottery.
The bones had all been preserved intact.
You need to soy why the building is worth preserving.
She held the presidency of the association for three years.
Three years into his presidency, he is ‘more popular than ever.
He was sworn inas president on August 31.
He issued a press statement insisting on his innocence.
There was no mention of the incident in the nationalpress.
Jiis latest novel didn’t get a very good press (= was not praised in the ‘media).
Their new book is inpress.
We've just received a copyof her latest book.
She pressed down hard on the gas pedal.
He pressed up closer agoinst the wall, terrified of being seen.
The croud pressed forward.
She pressed her lips together.
She pressed her foce against the windou.
Bella pressed her face into the pillow.
He pressed a finger gently to her lips.
He pressed the lid Sirmly shut.
In the interview he strongly pressed his point of view.
The party will continue to press the case for @ ‘new electoral system.
Idid ot press him further on the issue.
They pressed boldly on with their plan.
The weather wasdreadful but we pressed on regardless.
At the concluding press conference, both leaders said that the talks hod been constructive.
Thechairman told a press conJerenceaf the forthcoming merger.
The announcement was mode in an impromptu press conferenceattheairport.
The economic pressures on small businesses are intense.
He's felt under pressure since his wife had the operation.
There’s a lot of pressure on the soldiers preparing for botle.
There is intense pressure on her to resign.
The government bowed to popular pressure and repealed the law.
She started smoking because of peer pressure.
This concession would not have happened but for the pressure that was brought to bear on the authorities.
My parents never put any pressure on me to get a job.
Hospital staff are coming under pressure to work longer hours.
The editor bowed to prossure from his steff.
Management is under pressure (o set an exampleon pay restrain.
Immen: Winning the prize carries immense prestige.
Different jobs are accorded different levels of prestige.
The royal couple’s prestige wasdamaged by the allegations.
The post carried great prestige within the police force.
Doctors have suffered a loss of prestige following a spate of scandals.
Wearing designer clothes (s a matter of personal prestigefor many teenagers.
She won a highly prestigious award.
Jenny wauld be there.
There is a general presumption thatfatty foods are bad for your heart.
The argument is based on certain presumptions about human nature.
It was all an elaborate pretence.
He tried to get close to her under the pretence of examining the pictures on the wall.
His pretence at friendliness fooled no one.
He was hanged without even the pretence of a proper trial.
You know what this is all about, Natasha.
Iesuseless to pretend that we might still win.
Maria knew he was only pretending.
Let's pretend it never happened.
He considered inventing some pretext for calling her.
He disappeared into his study on the pretext that he had work to do there.
Under the pretext of checking her identity, the mian had copied down her credit carddetails.
Heused hisresearchas apretextfor travelling to Hungary.
He keeps popping intomy affice on the slightest pretext.
Her happy outlook always prevailed.
Comn- ‘man sense must prevail in theend.
The wishes of 20 million people ought to prevail against those of 200 thousand.
His view eventually prevailed over theirs.
This new legislation ofJfectively prevents us from trading.
There was nothing to prevent him setting up in business on the premises.
The whole affalr is an outrage and the authorities have done nothing toprevent .
They took action to prevent the disease from spreading.
Action must be swift in order to prevent further damage.
These injuries are entirely preventable.
Journalists have been given a sneak preview of the singer’s latestolbum.
Teenagers are easy prey for unscrupulous drug dealers.
The young deer are ideal prey or the leopard.
She was prey to all kinds of conflicting emotions.
The new government has fullen prey to corruption andfraud.
We sell quality tools at the right price.
What's the asking price for this house? > You need to pay a deposit of 10 per centaf the purchase price of the property.
They are selling off summer shoes at cost price.
Children travel half price until age ten.
Property in the area is now fetching ridiculously high prices.
Oil s set in go up in price.
In, vary in These computers range inprice from £1 300t0 £2 000.
Prices soared during the war.
If prices slump further, the formers will starve.
Food is auailable, at a price (= ata high price).
Cigarettes have remained stable in price for some time.
The team paid a heavy price for ils lack of preparation.
You can't put a price on happiness.
The cost of a policy premium Isasmall price to pay for peace of mind.
The car is priced at $60 000, between Tickets for the concert are priced between £15 and £35.
The ktsare priced from £2.
The house was priced much too high.
They have a Serce pride in their traditions.
He swelled with pride as he held the trophy.
With~Twear my policeman’s uniform with pride.
My daughter’s a writer he added with pride.
She expressed pride in her child's achievement.
Their reputation Jor fairness is matter for pride.
She takes great pride in her work.
He wos ‘nursing his hurt pride.
It was foalish pridethat prevented me from believing her.
We want to restore pride in our public services.
She swallowed her pride and ‘phoned him.
It is a matter of pride for ‘him that he ias never accepted moriey from his famity.
They have a strong sense of pride in their work.
She refused his offer tactfuly, allowing him togo away with his pride intact.
He was considered the high priest of finance at that time.
The beleaguered prime minister s coming under yet more pressure.
He served briefly s prime ‘minister from 1920 to 1921, (For mare verbs see the entry for minister.
She held affice under two different prime ministers.
This principle applies toall kinds of selling.
In~Tagree with you in principle, but we'll need ta discuss the details.
She went an to explain the principles behind what she was daing.
He was a ‘mianaf high maral principles.
She sticks ta the principle that everyane should be treated equally.
Fating meat was against her principles.
She's appased to abortion an principle.
They reject the propasal as a matter of principle.
Always read the small print in acontract beforesigning.
The initial print run for her baok was 6 000 copies.
In~ All her baaks are still in print.
The shop specializes in out-af-print boaks.
The incident was indelibly printed in her memary.
She had the memair privately printed in a limit ededitian.
We had the T:shirts specially printed with thefirm's logo.
The message was printed in blue ink.
The printer has run off 2 000copies of the leaflet.
Connect the printer tayour PCwith a printer cable.
The printer won't printfar some reason.
Getting food, medicine and blankets to Jlood victims s the most urgent priority.
Material ‘passessions have always beena law priarity far Mike.
Yau needta sart aut yaur priorities befare making a decisian abaut the future.
When haspital funds are being allacated children take priarity.
The gavernment is giving priority ta schaal leavers in s jab-creatian programme.
Her family takes priarity aver her work.
List the tasks in arder of priority.
Open prisons pre_pare prisaners for life back in the community.
He went ta prisan for tax evasian.
She wassent ta prison for leaking state secrets.
He was immediately seized and thrawn into prison.
She was tald by magistrates she could now face prison.
The palice are investigating disturb- ‘ances at the prisan.
Haw lang has her father been in prison? > There have been riatsin the prisan.
Without a wheelchair; she is a virtual prisoner in_her awn home.
He was ¢ model prisaner; and was released after serving only half his fiveyear sentence.
They had coptured aver 100 prisoners.
Many soldiers were taken prisoner.
Tiie farmer prisaner of conscience was elected president of the new demacracy.
In~ ] want ta be left In privacy.
She longed to be in the privacy of her own raam.
These phone calls are a gross invasion of privacy.
Several railway lines were closed under privatizatian.
Club members have special privileges, likefree use of the poal.
He was accused of abusing ‘hisdiplomaticprivileges.
She had the rare privilege of aviewing of his privateartcollection.
She came from a financiatly priviteged background.
She was the first woman to win this coveted prize.
He strove for the glittering prizes of politics.
The booby prizewas awarded to the worst singer in the competition.
The prize was presented by the mayor.
The prize went to the grey long-haired cat.
He won the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Pabove a precious thing to be prized above all else as Thelibroryis prizedas the finest of its kind in England.
The berries are prized for their healing properties.
There isa high probability that itwllisnow tonight.
We can say with a high degree of probability thatthe poem was written by Shakespeare.
This surgical procedure has a high probabilityof success.
In all probability she wouldn't come even if we invited her.
The coroner thought that on the balance of probabilities, the pilot had suffered a stroke just before the crash.
The two outcomes are equally probable.
He was placed on probation for two years.
She was sentenced toaear's probation.
Orice your prabation period s successfultycompleted, you witl beoffered a contract.
The judge put her on probation for a year.
Hejoined the company on six months’ probation.
The police were probing into her personol life.
He probed the mud with his knife.
Our greatest problem is the lack of funds.
Depression is a natural feeling if your problems seem intractabe.
His teachers say he has an attitude problem.
They sold their car toease their financial problems.
Inadequate resources pose a problem for all members of staff.
Success drings its own prob lems.
Staff shortages cause problems for the organization.
He has been faced with all manner of probtems in his new job.
The scheme has been fraught with problems from the start.
She raised the problem of Jalling salesat the last meeting.
The next meeting will address the problem of truancy.
If the problem persists you should see doctor: > The basic problem remains the lack of housing available.
The rail strike is a problem for all commuters.
This kind of activity de velops the children's problem-solving skills.
Work is now proceeding apace.
It will be necessary to proceed with caution.
In some cases appeals may proceed directly from the High Court t the House of Lords.
This project cannot be allowed to proceed.
Proceed along the Botley Road.
She decided not to praceed with the treatment.
The council must proceed on the basis of the vote.
She is bringing divorce praceedings against her husband.
The proceeds will be used to improve the school playground.
They bought a new minibus with the proceeds from the auction.
Remouing the splinters from the wound was a long and painful process.
Teachers are trained to stimulate the child's cognitive processes.
Churches are taking a key role in the democratic process.
Each time we have t0 g0 through the whole decision-making process again.
Excessive exposure to sunlight speeds up the ageing process of the skin.
The selection process takes placeover a period of two weeks.
The plant is then processed for dye.
Into The ‘berries are pracessed into juice or sauce.
We've had an endless processlon of new secretaries through the office since Amy lef.
The moyor of the fown led the procession to the central square.
Its way, move, pass, ‘wind (its way) The funeral procession moved slowly down the avenue.
The solemn procession wound its way through the narrow streets.
In (a/the)~ The children marched in procession behind the band.
The district unilaterally proclaimed its independence from the national government.
His classic boyish looks ‘seemed to proclaim his good humour and openness.
Everyone is proclaiming him as the next president.
The government restricted the use of water by proclamation.
All of these processes com bine to produce a particular form of language.
Trie technology can be used t0 produce interactive educational programs.
The wine is produced from Chardonnoy grapes.
We have a good product, but it needs (o bemarketed better.
The machine will go into full production in November 2002.
That particular model is no longer in production.
They belleved that power largely derives from ownership of themeans of production.
Noteat PERFORMANCE (for varbs) productive adi.
It was a highly productive meeting.
The strike took a heavy toll i lost productivity.
Farmers are struggling to maintain a levelof productivity that generates an acceptable income.
Management is negotiating a new productivitydeal with the union.
Wage increases outpaced growth in productivity.
In the 1930s he bidden to proctise his profession.
Into, entered the legal profession after university.
Hewasa consultant physician by profession.
She was shocked at her daughter’s choice of profession.
He reached the top of his profession in very little time.
This Is the work of a real professional.
The survey should be performed by an independent professional.
The group does not have an internal auditor: ne ‘We need an engineer to destgn us something better.
Itpays 1o find a good accountant.
His accountant has advised him to close down his business.
See alsathenote at J0B professional adj.
He insisted that his relationship with the duchess was purely professional.
Their designs look very professional.
He wants to turn fully professional.
He fitted perfictly the stereotypef the absent-minded prafessor.
He taught himself to carve to a highdegree of proficiency.
He acquired greater proficiency after a threemonth intensive course.
Inacertificate for proficiency in English proficient adj.
She's fairly proficientin Italian.
In~The painting shows her in profile.
He presented his best profile tothecamera.
Shedecided to keepa low profileuntil the scandal had died down.
The stary was givenalow profile in today's papers.
They closed down after years of low profiss.
Damaged gocds mear lost profit.
He's only interested in making a quick Pprofit.
The CD generated record profits.
The company startedtoshowa profitin tsirst year.
The firm made losses of 500000 against profitsof 750 000, ata~ Weshould beabletasell the ‘pianaata profit.
The goods were sold for prafit.
Increase in profitability, return to profitability The firm is now showing signsof a return toprofizability.
NoteatPER CENT (for more verbs) profitable ad).
The business is not really profitable enough.
Same churches have found it profitable to hold services during the week.
Cooperation could be mutually profitable.
This program allows you to edit and catalogue digital photographs.
The program contains pawerful new features.
The program creates simulations of real-life driving conditions.
There may be a bug in the program.
The pilot programme of vaccination proved successful.
Mr Brown calledfor a national recovery programme.
Female seals are needed for the breeding programme.
The course leader outlined the programme we would be following.
The college offers a wide variety of programmes of study.
Renewed fighting disrupted the relief programme.
The programme aims to increase employmen.
What's on your pro.
In foday’s programme, we'll be giving you advice on how to manage your money.
He ‘appearedon the programme lastnight.
Isaw ‘ good programme on owls last night.
Her name doesn't appear in the concert programme.
We watched the ship's stately progress out of the harbour.
There was a cricket match in progress.
He's making good progress inmaths.
Who can halt Woods' inexorable progress towards yet another championship? ~with ‘She's making steady progress with her thesis.
At the present rate of progress we won't be finished before July: workin progress I have one ile for completed work and.
The talks are progressing very well.
He felt he still needed to progress further in his learning.
The work is progressing quiteslowly.
Samir failed to progress beyond this first step on the ladder.
She soon pro gressed from the basics to more difficult work.
They are keen to progress with the scheme.
By a logical progression of thought, she worked out why the remark had caused ofJfence.
Her progression through the grades of the civil service had been rapid.
Smoking in the cinema is strictly prohibited.
The very restrict regulations effectively prohibit the entry of soil or ‘planss grown in soil into the country.
The president is constitutionally prohibited from serving more than two terms in office.
The Act specifically prohibits any council from spending money for political purposes.
The ‘scheme will be extended throughout the country after a successful six-month pilot project.
They've set up a research project to investigate the harmful effects of air pollution.
The project aims to reduce homelessness.
The aims of the project are threfold .
My class is doing a project on medieval touns.
On current projections, there will be more than ten million people 65 or over in 2010.
He declined to make projections about the next quarter's earnings.
We have been making forward projections as to future profitability of the firm.
They presented profit projections for the rest of the year: ~ of The council has revised its projections of funding requirements upwards.
Doctors commented that some patients deliberately prolong their treatment.
We do not want to prolong the ‘meeting unnecessarily.
The surgery must not be unduly prolonsed.
She came to national prominence as an ariist in the 19605.
His account gives due prominence to the role of the king.
The former rebels were given positions of prominence in the new government.
The city's rise to prominence asaport began in the early nineteenth century.
He makes all Kinds of big promises he has little intention of ~ keeping.
You gave me your promise I could use the car tonight.
I'll consider it, butImake no promises.
We extracted a promise from them that they would repay the money by May.
The Opposition is determined to hold the government t its election promises.
They've made all sorts of promises about reforming the health system.
This new venture holds great promise for the future.
His career fatled to fulfl its early promise.
She showed great promiseasarunner © PHRASES full of promise The year began so full of promise, and ended in disappointment.
She promised faithfully that she would come.
The plan Seemed 0 promise a new beginning.
I've promised my old computer to Jane.
Theoutlook is herdly promising.
The idea of equal opportunities was strongly promoted by many Labour MPs.
They claimed that the authorities had deliberately promoted ‘and condoned the violence.
Basketball stars from the United States have helped promote the sport in Italy and Spain.
Young people’s awareness of agricul tural issues is promoted through publicity material.
The new products have been very heavily promoted.
The foun s now belng promoted as a holiday destination.
The company'’s products have been promoted mainly through advertising in newspapers.
The company encourages intern alpromotion.
If [ can't get pro ‘motion soon, I'll look for another job.
James on his well-deserved promotion to Chief Executive.
With three matches remaining, there are six teams in the promotion race.
The team’s chances of promotion tock a knock when they lostat home.
The new health promotion clinic will provide free check-ups.
We're doing a special book [promation at key bookshops this week.
Sun removes the oil and wasx, leaving the leather Pprone to cracking.
The M40 through Oxfordshireis notoriously prone to og.
She seems very prone (o chest infections.
Gone back’ is sometimes pronounced as ‘gom ‘back’.
Press reports bgforehand confidently pronounced thatan agreement had already been reached.
The commitee has pronounced in fawour of the merger.
Ido not feel competent to pronounce on this matter: pronounced adj.
These blooms have @ very pronounced tendency to hang their heads.
Correct She doesn't like ‘having her pronunciation corrected.
We have proof positive that he i in hiding.
The lungfish is living proof thatfish could evolve to breathe on land.
He s unlikely to make wild accusations without proof.
The burden of roof lay on the plaintiff to prove negligence.
The men were acquitted for lack of proaf.
Proaf of purchase must be provided before a refund can be made.
Civil proceedings require a lower standard of proaf than criminal cases.
The pirate radio station broadcastanti-government propaganda.
The film was madein 1938jor propaganda purposes.
The Olymples wereof great propaganda value to theregime.
The papers were full of political propa ganda about nationalization.
Soviet propaganda against Fascism proper adj.
It seemed proper to pay tribute to her Inthis way.
It was not considered proper for young ladles to go out alone.
Companies should protect their intellectual property with patents and trademarks.
The market was known s a place where people disposed of stolen property.
The firm was found to have infringed intellectual property rights.
They decided to rent out the property while they were abroad.
We have a potential buyer who wants to view the property.
The property was volued at £250 000.
Once the tenonts have left, the property will be put on the market.
The medicinal properties of the leaves of this tree ‘have been known for centuries.
Macbeth believed the witches' prophecy about his future.
Some believe that he was not a true prophet.
In spite of the Pprophets of doom, her business proved very successfil.
His warnings about the journey proved prophetic.
Zhe company employs men and women in roughly equol proportions.
The unskilled section of the working class was diminishing as a proportion of the workforce.
The human population in the region is expanding in inverse proportion to the wildlife.
Try fo keep your view of thesituation in proportion (= not think it is more serious than itis).
In~(t0) The costof insurance increases in proportion 10 the performance of the car.
The custs of the plan are out of proportion 1o the budget avatlable.
The proportion of sand to cement used was three toone.
The problem has been exaggerated out of all proportion.
Try (o keep a sense of proportion (= of the relative importance of different things).
Thie computer brings the huge task of stock control down to more manageable proportions.
There is an entrance fiall of perJect proportions, twice aslong as itis wide.
The food shoriage had reached crisis proportions.
The amount of fooda child needs is roughly proportional to its size.
The speed of theglider isdirectly proportional to the speed of thewind.
The amount of force needed is inversely proportional to the rigidity of the material.
The government outlined a new setof propasals on human rights.
The Ministry submitted a proposalfor lower speed limits on motorways.
Ske accepted his proposalof marriage.
The measures have been proposed as a way of improving standards.
He was proposed for the job of treasurer.
The pian originally proposed was ruled completely unrealistic.
Ring upyour agentin New York and put your proposition to him.
He's a different propos.
The book puts forward a number of extreme propositions about the nature of language.
He is now sole proprietor of the business.
Ppossible He faces possible prosecution.
The police brought a prosecution against the driver involved.
Prosecutions far water pollution more than doubled.
The prosecution alleged that he murdered his wife.
Major developments are in prospect for the compans.
Getting the right qualifications will enhance your employment prospects.
Without~ At 25hewasan unemployed musician with no prospects.
Long-term prospects for the economy have tmproved.
The growth of tourism brought prosperity to the island.
The istand’s prosperity depends on its fishing industry.
Suburbs sprawled out to provide homes for the newly prosperous.
She was arrested and charged with being a common prostitute.
He was arrested on charges of controlling prostitutes.
Some turned to prostitution in order to survive.
There is a longstanding prostitution trade in the port.
They Jelt prostrate before the king.
Bach company is fighting (o protectits own commercial interests.
We must take teps to protect the UK as a manufacturing base.
The new measures are designed to protect the public from people like these.
Protect the exposed areasof wood with varnish.
Hefelt it was his duty to protect the child.
The Far Eastern markets are heauily protected (= with high taxes for imported goods).
Many of thescsites—of immensescientific interesi—arenot legally protected.
Keep the camera well protected at all times.
Witnesses at the trialwere given police protection.
Animal protection supporters gathered to protest ogainst hunting.
She carries a gun in her bag for personal protection.
Fire protection equipment must be available on allfioors.
The couple were was found guilty of violation of child protection laws.
Fill the cooling system with antifreeze asa protection against frost, ~from The high walls give the ‘garden protection from the wind.
The skunk releases a pungent smell as a means of profection.
The licnesses are fiercely protectiveq their young.
Cereals supply essential protein and vitamins.
Thenew tox sparked a wave of publicprotest.
Prisoners shouted and hurled slates in protest.
The strikers returned to wark, but under protest.
The crowd dispersed without protest.
There ‘had been a number of public protests against the new tax.
The party boycotted the election in protest at alleged vote rigging.
The announcement brought cries of protest from the crowd.
The constitution guarantees the right of peaceful protest.
Wien he fried to protest, she insisted.
Crowds gathered to protest about the police vlolence.
Income tax increase against protesting cgainst the proposed agreement at Many people have protested ot the cuts in state benefits.
We have protested to the government.
Protesters clashed with police ouside the embassy.
The car is presently at the prototypestage.
The team is developing a prototype for a provision digital compact comera.
He is working on the prototypeof anew typeof ventilator: proud adj.
She was Siercely proud of family traditions and continuity.
He seemed almost proud of his practicat incompetence.
Londoners fave long been perversely proud of a health service that does not serve them well.
He was not vain, but he was quietly proud of his literary achievements.
All those involved have every reason to be proud of their achievement.
Al this proves conclusively that she couldn't have known the truth.
Just Their behaviour just proves my point.
He tried 0 prove his theory to hisfriends.
No funding will be available until the technology is completely proven.
The scheme was intended to provide financial help to unemployed workers.
The report was not expected to provide any answers.
Heprovided us with a lot of useful information.
The show Is currently touring the provinces.
She's from the provinces and not familiar with Rome, in the ~ There are number of press ‘agencies based in London and in the provinces.
Several firms are responsible for the provi- ‘sion of cleaning services.
It is important fo make adequate provision for your retirement.
They had made all kinds of provisions against bad weather.
The Act contains detailed provt sions for appeal against the court's dectsfon.
We went Into toun tostock up on provisions.
The victim's conduct had involved an elementaf provocation.
Thecrime was committed under provocation.
She attacked him without provocation.
He would lase his temper at theslightest provocation.
The suggestion inevir ably provoked outragefrom student leaders.
The report is likely to provoke discussion of this issue.
Shehad been (rying to provoke her sister into an argument.
He was sensitiveand eastly provoked.
He boasted of his prowess as a lover: ~at her prowess at tennis ~in The Gurkhas are famed for their prowess in battle.
Their striker demonstrated all his ‘prowess with the boot.
The ite i in close proximity to motoriays andan airport.
House prices in thearea areelevated by ts proximity to London.
You may appolnt a proxy to votefor you.
Your proxy may attend the meeting if you are unable to attend.
If you will not be able to vote on polling day, you may vote by proxy.
We enclose a form of proxy Jfor use at the Annual General Meeting.
We thought it prudent totelephone first.
Prune the trees ‘hard in the winter.
Local councils could find their housing budgets severely pruned.
The roses had been pruned back savagely.
Eric Blair wrote under the pseudonymof George Oruell.
Note at SUBJECT (for verbs and nouns) psychological ad.
The symptoms are purely psychological.
Watching the shoppers at the sales gave her a first-hand insight into crowd psychology.
The corner pub is quite good.
Ler's g0 down the pub for a drink.
He spent allafternoon in the pub.
Girls start menstruating at puberty.
The body undergoes many changes during puberty.
Inform The government was slow to inform the public about the health hazards of lead in petrol.
The house is open to the public at weekends.
Herarely appearsin public these days.
Sateliite television has provided the viewing public with a wide choice of programmes.
Her work is now available to @ wider public.
The book is scheduled for publication tn the autumn.
This Week"s German sister publication, ‘Diese Woche' went out of business.
She has several publications to her name on local histor.
The release of the report was timed to generate maximum publicity.
There was a lot of negative publicity surrounding thefilm.
There has beena lotof unfavourablepublicity aboutthe hospital.
Taking part in the event will be good publicity for our school.
The firm had received bad publicity over a defective product.
The chair- ‘man resigned amid a storm of publicity over the bonus payments.
The film stars were married in a blaze of publicity.
He carried on his ife in the full glare of publicity.
He's better-looking in his publlicity shots than he is in real life.
The actress denied that her marriage wasjusta publicity stunt.
The record company’s publicity machine was working flat out.
There have beenmonths of advance publicity for the show.
Her last book was published posthumously in 1948.
Finding a publisher is ‘hard for all writers.
She now has a publisher for her book.
The Cranfield Press is the publishing arm of the Cranfield Institute of Technologs.
Thepublishing world i extremely competitive.
He fook a long puj at his cigar and began his story.
She puffed furiously at her cigarette.
My Jfather sat puffing contentedly on his pipe.
She was puffing quite hard by the time she reached the office.
She was still puffing from the climb.
She puffed ard panted behind the others.
The magnetic pull of the ity was hard toresist.
Sheelt the pull of her homeland.
Hefelt astrong pullon the repe.
Shetook a long pullon her cigarette andsighed.
He got hold of the rope and pulled hord.
He pulled his sweater on.
She took ‘his arm and pulled him along.
The dog snapped at her ‘and she pulled back her hand.
He tried to pull away.
He pulled at her coat sleeve.
She pulled on the lever:towards She pulled him gently towards her.
John finally managed to pull himself free.
She was wearing a knitted pullover.
Last time I took my pulse, it was a bitfast.
She reached in through the driver’s broken window and checked for ¢ pulse.
There was little to quicken the ‘pulse in hisdull routine.
She felt her pulse quickenas she recognized thevoice.
My at-rest pulse rate is usually ‘about 80 beats per minue.
Shegave him a punchon thenose.
He can throwa powerful punch.
She gave him a punch on the nose.
In Hisattacker had punched him hard in the face.
Shepunched him on the nose.
PiRASES Kick and punch/punch and kick He was repeatedly kicked and punched as he lay on the ground.
The tyre had a slow puncture and had to be pumped up every das.
She suffered a puncture in the fifth lap.
Those who had opposed the court were duly punished.
He was trying to punish her for deserting him all those years ago.
Damages are not designed to punish the person.
Never punish children by making them go hungry.
They will beseverely punishedor their crimes.
Offenders will be punished with a £1 000fine.
Inflict, mete out It is unlatful for a teacher to inflict corporal punishment on pupils.
The victin’s familydonot believe that this punishment fits the crime.
Punishments for killing the king's deer were severe.
He was compelled on pain of punistunent to answer the question.
They use a system of reward and punishment to discipline their children.
The king wasa mere puppet of the mayor.
Companies are moving away from outrlght purchase of company cars to contract hire.
You cun resell books andcut theoriginal costof purchase.
Keep your receipt asproof of purchase.
The lond was compulsorily purchased from the owner to make way for the new road.
They purchased the land for §1 million.
They purchased the house from.
He struggled to ‘preserve his ideologicol purity.
He turned purplewith rage.
The scheme achieved lts primary purpose, if nothing else.
He slammed the door on purpose.
Ifinally realized that we were talking at cross purposes.
The school was founded with the express purpose of teaching deaf children to speak.
Nominally she s the secretary, but for all practical purposes she runs the place.
Thecycling events will take place in a purpose-built 20 000seater stadium.
She saw being a doctor as her purpose in life.
The old mill has been put to good purpose.
Purpose Encouroged by her example, they all set to work with a fresh sense of purpose.
They had great confidence and strength of purpose.
The drug can be sold for medicinal purposes only.
Let'sassume he knouws, for the purPposesof our argument.
He was still doggedly pursuing his studies.
We have decided not fo pursue the matter further.
He pursued her relentlessly, refusing totake 'no’ for ananswer.
Fe ran past, ‘hotly pursued by two policemen.
He devoted his waking hours to the single-minded pursuit of his goal.
The police gave pursuit.
Ttwo boys ran past with a security guard in pursuit.
The guard set off in pursuitof the thief.
In close/hot pursuit Away ran the fox, with the hunters in hot pursuit.
She hos time now to follow hervarious artistic pursults.
The wound had not ‘healed properly and was 0ozing pus.
The machine washes anddries at the push of a button.
There has been a big push for better public transport.
Yow'll have (o push horder if you want it to move.
He was deltberately pushed into the path of the vehicle.
Jack flung himself at Steve, but he simply pushed him away.
Inside, over, together She leaned on the door and pushed the bolt home.
The fans pushed against the borrier: at She pushed at the door but it wouldn’t budge.
Thewoman had been pushed violently to the ground.
He managed to push the windowopena few inches.
Peaple were pushing and shoving to get to the front.
Her parents are very tolerant, but sometimes she pushes them t0o fur.
Don't allow yourself to be pushed around by that bully.
Into Her parents pushed her info accepting the Job.
He felt he was ‘being pushed tothe limits of his self-control.
They're pushing hard for a ban on GM foods.
I'm going to have to push you for an answer.
Put simply, we accept their offer or go bankrupt.
The puzzle remains of what happened to the ship.
They knew who the killer was, but there werestillsome gapsin the puzzle.
Thereisa putz2le about how the plant first came to Britain.
They're trying to solve the puzzle of how gravity works.
Anather piece of the puzzle fell into place.
Traces of explosives found among the wreckage were the key to the puzzle.
The policedidn't know what the message meant, but it was another piece in the puzzle.
You look very puzzled about something.
Mrs Sykes seemed slightly puzzled by this.
Only two of the applicants had the necessary qualifications.
The job usually hasa three-year qualfication period.
The term population’ as used here requires qualification.
The committee supported her proposal, without qualification.
The teaching staff are all highly qualified.
Applications are invited from suitably qualified individuals.
Elaine did not feel qualified to comment.
The proposals received heavily qualified approval.
You willautomatically qualify for a pension.
South Korea duly qualified for the finals when they beat Italy 6-1.
England failed to qualify for the final.
All our cakes are made with top quality ingredients.
When costs are cut product quality suffers.
The photosareof variable quality.
Advances in technology would.
Iy unpleasant, with no redeeming qualities whatsoever.
Gas was detected in sufficient quantity to warrant careful monitoring.
There is a discount for goods bought in quantity.
The animals are still in quarantine at the port.
We have no ‘quarrel with their plans, infact we support them.
What did you two quarrel about? ‘with He wished he hadn’t quarrelled with Tania.
Arab, Chinese, Latin, etc.
The corporal and his family lived in married quarters.
He was confined to quarters as a punishment.
She was crowned queen at theageof fifteen.
If you have ony queries regording this offer; simply call our helpline.
We regret that we cannot deal with queries on individual cases.
We had queries from people all over the country.
The team will continue its quest for Olympic gold this ofternoon.
Itis possible that his quest willend in Geneva.
We set off in quest of the perfect wedding dress.
He became embarrassed when a journalist asked him pointed questions about his finances.
The judge told him not to ask the witness leading questions.
The children bombarded us with questions.
The interview panelfired questionsat me fromall angles.
The chairperson fielded technical questions that she could.
He skilfully porried all the interviewer's most probing questions.
She refused to onswer questions about her privote lfe.
It does call into question the decision to send troaps into the area.
The government's handling of the whole offair remains open to question.
Her loyalty is beyond question.
In~ His sincerity is not in question.
It was, without question, the worst day of my life.
There is no question about her enthusiosm Jor the job.
She was closely questioned about her whereabouts on the night of the murder.
In connection with A man is being questioned in connection with therobbery.
He was questioned on his role in the affair.
Their motives for undertaking this studyare highly questionable.
She decided to confront her boss about the situation with direct questioning.
Four suspects have been detained for questioning in connection with the incident.
On dloser questioning, T discovered that his whole story had been a lie.
The suspect remained silent under questioning.
The prime minister faced tough questioning about his plans.
The ‘man was released after questioning by detectives.
The group chairman faced hostile questioning from angry shareholders.
His arrivalclearly puts @ huge question mark against the future of the present team captain.
There is now a serious question markaver his leadership ability.
Most of the stajf who responded to the questionnaire were supportive.
The college is now analysing thousands of questionnaires.
Local companies were asked to complete a questionnaire about their exports.
Please form an orderly queue.
More unemployed peopie are Joining the dole queue each week.
Join, stand in, wait In He had 10 join the queue for the toilets.
Long queues are building up on most of Britain’s motorways.
The queue’s not moving at all.
The queue stretched for more than amile.
People queued up outside.
Weiad to queue for tickets.
It was amercifully quick end for those condemned to die.
I'm going home for a bit of peace and quiet! a placeitime of quiet She made sure she had times of quiet in which to write.
Suddenly the room went oll quiet.
The house was eerlly quiet.
His voice was dangerously quiet as he asked the question.
She went back to a strangely quiet house.
Ihad to keep quiet about it.
Keep the patient as quiet as possible.
Things ‘seemed quiet enough, but it was an uneasy calm.
The system has some odd little quirks.
By a strangequirk of fute, she later married the first boyfriend she'd ever hod.
I'm still trying to quit smoking.
Landlords are nor- ‘mally required to give 28days' written notice to quit.
Henever takes his full quota of holidays.
We had to increase our output to Jill the quota by the end of the year.
Many countriesare still exceeding their quotas.
My quotation is taken from “Hamler.
Most builders will give you a free quotation.
The quote of the week comes from Mae West.
Aluays get @ written quote before proceeding with work.
She quotesextensively from theauthor's diaries.
The passage is quoted in full.
The new text of Article 92, quoted above, gives member states more discretion on this issue.
She is wrongly quoted assaying ‘Play it again, Sam.
Don't quote me on this but I think the figure i in excess of £2 billion.
Rabbits breed very fast.
The building was a real rabbit warrenof corridors.
Grand Prix, World Cup, etc.
He drapped out of the race with a pulled muscle ofier two laps.
She has won the race for the last five years.
He was ‘paid £1 00010 throw the race.
The horse was withdraun from today's race meeting with an injured leg.
In althe ~ I'm ot in this race.
Although there are five candidates, realistically it is a two-horse race.
Ebe (involved) n, join The rival TV companies are in a race to bring out the first film drama of his Iife.
Irish, Jawish, Latin, etc.
Immigration and race relations were key politicalissuesat the time.
The disease is more common among European races.
The Amazons werea race of female warriors.
She raced frantically towards the train.
Farmsand villages raced by.
He raced madly up thestairs.
Two boys suddenly came racing round the corner.
Her racing tipster got the Derby winner right.
He has ridden horses all his life, but he was a late starter in the racing game.
She’s a familiar face on the racing scene.
He made his racing debut for Benetton three searsago.
The bikes sped by on the racing circuit.
Rocism is rampant in the armed forces.
Many immigrants have experienced racism.
We ixed the canoe onto the car’s roof rack.
The wine s stored in specialracks.
The racks along the wall heldmest of the costumes.
He replaced the CD in the rack.
Spread the flowers out to dry on a rack.
He had to shout over the racket.
He set up a protection racket and demanded thousands of pounds from local shopkeepers.
Patients receive high doses of radiation during cancer treatment.
Nucear testing has exposed millions of Ppeople to radiation.
You'll need to bleed the radiators to remove the airlocks.
Top up the radiator before making a long journey.
There were calls for cab radios to link train drivers and signal boxes.
The radio announced that the president had been assassinated.
The troops maintained a strict radio silence while they moved into position.
The distress call was picked up by a young radio ham.
The message was sent by radio.
We were listening to a show on the radio, radioactive adj.
The soil contains 30 times the acceptable levelof radicactiviy.
The site was found to be contaminated by radioactivity.
He's organizing a raffle for the school playground appeal fund.
They builta raft of ogs.
The raft floated away down the river.
He noticed what looked like abundleof rags beside the road.
The gunwas wrapped ina dirtyrag.
He wiped hishandsonanolly rag.
Icleaned the board with an old rag.
He punched the wall in afit of rage.
He glared at ‘me, quite beside himself with rage.
How dare you! she said, her voice choked with rage.
The people vented their rage on government buildings.
He ‘managed to master his rage.
His rage suddenly erupted.
His rage was beginning to subside.
She was speechless with rage.
He gave a roar of rage and punched me in the face.
She smashed up his car in adrunken rage.
If something’s too difficult she gets in a rage.
She kilied him in a rage of despair.
He was in a towering rage about his lost watch.
Heflewinto a rage at the insult, ~of He lft ina rageof humiliation.
She was still raging about the treatmen{ she had received.
Thetzamwas leftraging at the referee’s decision.
The argument still rages on.
Even thedogs were quiet while the heated (quarrel raged around them.
Five civilians died in the raid.
He led his men on a cross-border raid.
The ruids against Noruway continued.
The town suffered several raids by Vikings.
Two customers ‘have foiled a smash-and-grab raidon a local shop.
She was shot during an armed raid ona security van.
He was injured during a police raid on his nightclub.
Lace curtains hung from the brassrails over the bed.
The train thundered along the rails.
Weeds grew between the rails.
The train came ff the rails.
The gun is ‘mounted on rais.
We wentfrom London to Budapest by rail.
Tourists can take the funicular railway to the top of the mountain.
The railways carry millions of tonsaf freight every year.
Such speed of travel was unimaginable before the railway age.
He works on the railuways.
Thefine rain turned to mist in the early evening.
The forecast is for wind and patchyrain.
Overnight rain had Jreshened up the garden.
The monsoon rains started early thisyear.
We had three inches of rain last night.
Wecould do with a spot of rain.
Rain is forecast for tomorrow.
Black clouds threatened rain.
It poured with rain all afternioon.
We gotcaught in the rain on the way home.
Rain beat against the window all night.
Rain dripped doun his callar.
The rain came just as we set off.
The rain had set in steadily by the time we got home.
The rvin didn’t let up all day.
The rain continued for most of the day.
With rain threatening, we headed home as fust as we could.
The rain drove the players off the court.
In the ~ Wefound her sitting in the pouring rain.
Come in out of the rain.
We droveslowly through the driving rain.
It rained incessantlyfor the whale two weeks.
There have ‘een heavy rainfalls this month.
We need a good rainfall to save the crops.
The area has a high annual rainfall.
The demonstrators marched to Trofalgar Square where they held a rally.
About 5 000 Ppeople attended a rally calling for peace.
The government closed the schools and bannedalratiies.
The rolly dispersed peacefully after six hours.
She spoke at a public rally in Hyde Pork.
He will join the team on the rally next week.
Neighbours rallied round and alerted the emergency services.
The team coptcin vainly tried to rally his troops.
She urged everyone to rally behind the president.
Friends rallied to her.
Friends and colleagues haverallied to her cause.
Into He deliberately rammed his truck into the ‘back of the one infront.
We went for a ramble over themoors.
Come and see our new range of furniture.
For more information about our product range, caltyour locat branch.
Students can choose from @ wide range of options.
The company is launching a new range of cosmetics.
Cover, encompass, feature, include ‘The tradeshow will featurean enormous range of goods.
There s considerable variation in ability across therange.
Most of the students are intheagerange 17-21.
No, that's completeIy outside my price range.
The level of mistakes s within the acceptablerangeaf standards for a publicorganization.
He shot her atpoint-blank range.
This car is beyond the range of most peaple’s pockets.
Are we within range of the local transmitter? out of~ Don't shoot yet—he’s still out of range.
If's utsidemy range of vision.
The opinions they expressed ranged right across the politicol spectrum.
The {own's population ranged between 15 and 20 000.
The disease ranges widely in severity.
Their ages range up to84.
Rank: the armed forces air force, army.
She joined the navy and held the rank of coptain.
He served as a lieutenant in the marine corps.
He was madea colonel at the oge of 40.
Sheought to have been made sergeant by now.
General Miles attacked the camp.
She was promoted to the rank of colonel.
He s in the first rank of university teachers.
She joined the navy, where she rose to the rank of captain.
He held officer rank in the air forcefor many years.
He never rose above the rank of lieutenant.
He Is higher in ronk than I am.
She reached the rank of ccptain.
The president moved slowly along the ranks of men.
The soldiers marched in three ranksof ten.
The police broke ranks and started hitting people with their batons.
Each month thousands more swell the ranks of the unemployed.
They had served in the ranks of the Sultar’s army.
He come up through the ranks to become a general.
There is much disaffection among the ranks of the party: beyondjoutside the~s The group has little influence over thse outside i own.
These subjects ranked low for ‘most students.
She ranks above any other musictan of her ‘generation.
The children were ranked according to academic ability.
This city ranks alongside London os one of the great tourist centres of the world.
He ranks among the greatest boxers of all time.
Their performance ranks as the best of the year: balow, with This ranks with the great paintings of the nineteenth century.
He is a high-ranking officer in the Indian Army rank sth in order of sthranked in order of size.
She is now ranked in the top five hockey plogers in Britoin.
The company ranks second among food manufacturers.
She was kidnapped and held for ransom.
The company refused to be held to ransom by the union.
Herapped sharply on the door.
She wasattacked and brutally raped.
The styles change with bewildering rapidity.
Theserial rapist has struck again.
She felt an instant ropport between them ~with He had enjoyed a personal rapport with the Jormer president.
When Tmstressed I break out in a rash.
The rash ‘most commonly appears on the back.
He's got a slight rash on his chest.
Rats had gnawed through the wires.
The dog was a useful rat catcher in the warehouse.
The costs of the project crerising ot an lorming rate.
There is low survival rote among babies born before 22 weeks.
The seasonally-adjusted unemployment rote in December stood at 5%.
We need to eat less o5 we get older and our metabolic rate slows down.
The water was escaping at a rate of 200 gallonsa minute.
We have a wide range of vehicles available for hire at competitive rates.
Calls are cheap rate after 6p.
Theaccount offers apoor rate of interest.
You can opt to paya flat ratefor unlimited Internet access.
I'llpay yoi at the going rate (= the present usual rate of payment).
Ask about the special group rates for entrance to the house and gardens.
We will hold these rates until 1 April.
They charge the usual rateof interest.
Their hourIy rates have gone up.
Exchange rates are fluctuating wildly.
Standard rates of interest apply to these loans.
Interest rates, a rise In mortgage rates, etc.
Silver was rated more highly than gold.
America as It is rated as one of the ity’s best hotels.
The overall performance rating puts the new model well ahead of its main rivals.
He has the highest opinion poll rating of any president this century.
Most countries try to preserve their International credit rating in order to secure necessary toans.
T'he universiy scored atop rating among students.
Improve, rise, rocket, soar The president's ratings have suddenty rocketed.
The resort got a low rating for children’s facilities.
The judges gave her the maximum rating on style.
At this stage the series was getting good ratings.
The programme’s ratings have dipped sharply.
It has been ousted from top spot in the TVratings.
The hospital is trying to improve its staf/ patient ratio.
Their salesrose in direct ration to theamount they spent on advertising.
Preg- ‘nant women received a double ration of milk.
The refugees queued up for their meagre rations of soup.
The guards are going to cutour rations again.
Thesefoods had to bestrictly rationed.
The soldiers were rationed to one litre of water each per day.
It all seemed quite rational to me.
At the time she was perfectly rationat.
Humans cre essentially rational beings.
With children working from the ageof ten, large families were economically rational.
The ‘government introduced meat rationing in May.
Strict rationing of basic foodstuffs was still in force by theend of the year.
Her brooch caught the rays f the setting sun.
When the sun's rays hit the earth, a ot of heat s reflected back into space.
Ultraviolet raysdamage the skin.
Gorillas have a very long reach.
The latch was just beyond her reach.
Marseilles out of sbisth's ~ Keep all medicines out of reach of children.
Within arm's reach I always keep my mobile 'phone within arm's reach.
The houseis within easy reach of the shops.
Profits are expected to reach £2 billion this year.
The jury wasunable toreacha verdict.
He reached out gingerly to touch t.
Shereachedjor the telephone and picked it up.
Hereached into his bag and took outa book.
She had arranged her desk sothat shecould reach everything easily.
The police ‘must be abie to react swiftly in an emergency.
His insensitive remarks hurt and she reacted accordingly.
The industry hes ‘been slow to react to these breakthroughs in technolog.
He did nat know how to react to her sudden mood suwings.
Many young people react against trad itional values.
The government reacted by increosing taxation.
The university reacted unfovourably to the Dproposals.
Her family reacted with horror when she toldthem.
Her outburst was a delayed reaction to an unpleasont letter she'd received that morning.
The change of plan set off a chain reaction of confusion.
The incident calls for a measured response, avoiding kneejerk recctions.
The critical reaction to his irst novel has been positive.
She was surprised at the reaction brought by the mention of his name.
He eved her cautiousls, trying to gouge her recction.
Judging by her reaction, sheliked the present.
There's been a drop in ticket sales in reaction to the review.
Her rebellious attitude is Just a reactlon agolnst her strict upbringing.
Alcohol has the effect of slowing doun your reactions.
Your reaction time increases when you are tired.
She hadavery bad allergicreaction tothe peanuts.
Thestory madean interesting read.
Interest He read her letter with inerest.
She read avidly from an early age—books, magazines, anything.
Most children can read by the age of seven.
Hogan had read about her death in the papers.
The figures should be clearly readable.
Alert readers may have noticed the misprint in last week’s column.
Doily Express, Guardian, etc.
The troops were in astateaf combat readiness.
Indicate, show, signal Hungary has indicated its readiness to sign the treaty.
He held his gun in readiness.
Their story makes compulsivereading.
After extensive reading on the subject she set to work on an article.
My map-reading skills are not the best.
In the holidays I ll get down to some serious reading.
He hasa reading age of ight.
She has a good reading knowledge of Russian.
His reading about Ruskin led him to the works of Turner.
Dickens gave many public readings from his works.
We met at a reading of his poetry.
The dials were giving higher readings than we had expected.
We were gerting ready to go out.
Shewas concerned to protect the children from the truth until she judged them readyto hear it.
Iwas all ready to leave when the phone rang.
He didn't feel quite ready for marriage.
Gust) about, almost, nearly, practically I think we're just about ready 1o start.
He's always ready witha quick answer.
Please have your tickets ready for inspection.
Ive left everything ready in the kitchen.
I'll get all the boxes read.
The warships were soon made ready.
The plane was refuelled and declared ready for service again.
The cases areready for delivers.
Conriors was more than ready to oblige.
She was only too ready to believe the worstof him.
Her suffering was all too real.
The pearls looked real enough.
Clever lighting and sound effects brought greater realism to the plas.
Children can get frustrated when they are unable toachieve realism in their drawings.
Try 1o keep your ambitions realistic.
My friends were quite realistic about my problems.
You could make the hands alittle more realistic.
We were faced with the awful reality of having nowhere to live.
He has no illusions about the underlying reality of army lfe.
Painters at the time were largely concerned with reproducing external reality.
One day her dream will become a reality.
If's our task to make the proposalsareality.
She will have to face reality sooner or later.
They are out of touch with the realities of modern warfure.
Most people’s ideas of the disease do not have much todo with the reality.
He called Jor the committee to stop dreaming and return to reality.
Most comedy relies on distorting reality.
Her parents always tried to shield her from the realities of the world.
The media portray her as happy and successful, but in reality she has a difficult Life.
The realization that the murderer must have been a close friend come as @ shock.
We saw the terrible realization of what she'd done dawn on her face.
She dimly reclized that she was trembling.
The situation was more complicated than they had at first realized.
We are constantly using histaric buildings, withouteven realizing it.
The research has opened up new realms for investigotion.
Most readers are likely to lose interest when he descends into the realms of (= starts discussing) rhetorical terminology.
The euro has moved from the realms of theory into reality.
His ambitions ‘are way beyond the realms of possibility.
The idea belongs in the realm of science fiction.
They fought to defend the ‘realm.
There uas rejoicing throughout the realm.
Royal taxation usually had to be for the defence of the realm.
Her theory is that _disillusionment with employment leads 1t reappraisal of career goals.
They have undertakena reappraisal of pupils’ needs.
Three drummers brought up therear (= werelust in the parade).
He married her for all the wrong reasons.
Tom’s problem was that he lacked confidence; Ed failed for precisely the opposite reason.
The only reason I didn’t become a professional golfer was because of my family commitments.
Ske did not tell Aim the real reason for her change of heart.
There isan assumption thata state will protect ts ctizens.
That is the very reason for the existence of states.
He was attacked for no apparent reason.
Idon't know why he did that, but I'm sure he had his reasons.
In the letter she carefully set out her reasons for leaving.
Jor reasons of national security for ~ of (formab) For reasons of security, you are requested to keep your luggage with you at all times.
They complained about the food, and with good reason (= rightly).
There are obuious reasons against such a move.
We are trying to uncover the reasons behind her decision.
They didn’t give any reason for the delay.
If he's unvell, that's all the more reason to go and see him.
People buy things for all sorts of reasons.
Halno/one/some reason I know you're angry with me, ‘and you have every reason (= very good reasans) (o be.
There's no rhyme or reason (= 1ogic) to the new opering hours.
He seems to have lost all sense andreason.
He was beyond all reason.
The residents hape that an appeal to reason (=asking the riotersto be reasonable) willend the rioting.
It stonds to reason (= it is logical) that she wouldn't wont them 10 find out ‘about her personal problems.
Shewas always the voice of reason, persuading him not to buy things they couldn’t afford.
The police apparently thought this explanation perfectly reasonabe.
Her request sounded reasonableenough to me.
The same reasoning applies to the current situation.
Many people chal lenged the reasoning behind the proposal.
The implication of this line reasoning is that globalization of capital is destructive.
She seemed to have lost her powers of reasoning.
Continual calm reassurance should be given.
We have had some reassurances from the council that the building will be saved.
He glanced at her, seeking reassurance.
He drew reassurance from the enthusiastic applause.
She found reassurance in the high attendance at her lectures.
She kept looking in the mirror despite my constant reassurances that her hair looked fine.
He held onio her hand for reassurance.
The ministry tried to offer reassurance on the safety of eating beef.
He was constantly reassuring himself that he had acted for the best.
She needed to be reassured of his love for her.
He reassured her with a pat on the arm.
Kate nodded, but she didr't Jfeel reassured.
Often parents simply need reassuring that their children are happy at school.
Fer comment—'You can always try again if you fail —was hardly reassuring.
She's claiming a 100% tax rebate.
They sent in traops to back the rebels.
The rebels seized control of the national radio headquarters.
The southern parts of the country had fallen into rebel control.
He'sa bitofarebel (= he doesn'tlike to abey rules).
They staged a rebettion against British rule in Ireland.
The re-introduction of conscription sparked off @ major rebellion.
The new taxes provoked the population to open rebellion.
The opposition party members threatened rebeltion.
Peasant _rebellions occurredthroughoutthe 1éthcentury.
Rebellion broke out in the Rhineland.
Theyare in rebellion agains! the conservative hierarchy of the Church.
The band refused to go on stage and rebellion began to stir in the audience.
My father uas t00proud torisk arebuff so hesimply did notask her.
In G rebufy to the presiden, Congress voted against the bill.
She suffered a rebuf from her manager when she raised the matter.
The hall had to be completely rebuilt after the fire.
Even one minute's lateness would earn a stern rebuke.
He meekly accepted the rebuke.
If the general found his authority questioned he invariably administered a sharp rebuke.
They received a public rebuke from the prime minister for their handling of the matter.
He hit back with a stinging rebuke to his critics.
She rebuked herself sharply for her stupidity.
If I recall correctly, he lives in Luton.
Wy She could easily recall the smell of the orange groves.
Becky could still recall that first meeting clearly.
Iseem to recall that she said.
His fine dark hair was receding a little.
The pain was gredually receding.
The January flood wters receded csfast asthey had risen.
These worries now receded from his mind.
Fis Jootsteps receded into the distonce.
You can claim a refund provided you keep the receipt.
The ariginal receipt must be produced in order to reclaim your goods.
She issued a receipt for the goods.
The goods will be sent on receipt of your cheque.
The casing date or recelpt of your application is July 14.
Items should be paid for within 14days of receipt.
Cash income is calculated by subtracting total trading income from total receipts.
Customs and excise receipts rase2.
Cash receipts reached £70miltion.
Any helpor donations will begratefully received.
You might be entitled foreceive housing benefit.
You can expect foreceive compensation for all direct expenses arising out of theaccident.
The play was very well received.
The ‘speech was badly received by republican leaders.
The news was received with dismay.
The receiver was dangling Jfromthe payphone.
It's your mother on the phone again”, said John with his hand over the receiver.
To change channel, select the desired number on the receiver unit.
They had to lay off 200 staff and call in the receivers.
The company remained in the hands (= under the control)of therecelver recent adj.
Please waitfor me douwnstairs in reception.
T've left the keysatreception.
Alldelegates should report to reception on arrival.
The man ot reception seys there's a call Jfor you.
The documents are in reception, on=~I've been ‘on reception (- working at the reception desk) the whole morning.
We met at a reception.
The scheme has had a someuwhat mixed reception from local people.
The managers did not expect a sympathetic reception from the striking workers.
Shewas given a rapturous reception by the crow.
Teleuvision reception is very good in thisarea.
Thedecision cannot be made while the council s in recess.
He stared into the dark recesses of theroom.
The statue was in the inner recessesof the temple.
It was the worst recession since the war.
Britain deeper into recession.
As dozens of pubs go out of business, others are riding out the recession.
With a recession looming, consumers are spending less.
The country has been hit by recession.
In (a/the)~ The economy is indeep recession.
Turning away under a strong attack is a sure recipe for defeat.
The basic recipe con be adapted by adding grated lemon.
The ales are brewed to an original Yorkshirerecipe.
F've got a good recipe for fudge.
This recipe can also be made with ricotia cheese.
If you want the dish to turn out right you should follow the recipe.
Al the recipes in the book have been devised by our team of experts.
He is credited with having discovered the first recipefor gin back in the 1600s.
She always said that if a recipe calls for cream you shouldn't use yogurt instead.
This recipe makes about thirty biscuits.
This recipe serves four people.
Thedish is made toa traditional ltalian recipe.
To live everyday tothe full sa recipefor happiness.
She was not the intended recipient of the reward.
We are passive recipients of information from the world around us.
Dad was always the grateful recipient of her snobbery.
Ouwr 1000th member will bethe lucky recipient of a mystery gift.
She stared directly at the witness but he did not show a flicker of recognition (= he did not show that he recognized her).
He pulled the ‘hood of his cloak over his head to avoid recognition.
The monitoring system allows recognition of pollution hot spots.
Many of those interviewed said their job had changed beyond recognition changed completely) over the pastfive years.
The equipment and methods of production ‘haveimproved out of all recognition (= greatly improved).
Tliere was norecognition in his eyes (= he did not look as if he recognized her).
There needs (o be a greater recognition of corporatecrimeas asocial problem.
The award is ‘being made in belated recognition of her services to the industry.
The young talent at the club deserves wider recog: nition.
Twelve states have accorded defacto recognition to the new regime.
Both of these perspectives are valid and require recognition.
They claim that signature of the peace accord did ‘ot imply recognition of the state’s sovereignt.
Official recognition of thechangecame fast.
She has worked actively but withoutrecog.
Immediately, instantly, quite, readily John's car was eastly recognizable in the car park.
English by recognizable by their distinctive uniforms to The scheme's ‘benefits were recognizabile to all interest groups.
This is the only species of flamingo in the region, easily recognized by its pink piumage.
Stella hardly recognized her brother.
You learn to recognize thecallsof different birds.
He recognized the man as one of the police officers.
They fully recognize the need to proceed careJully.
The government has belatedly recagnized the danger to health of passive smoking.
The company had been slow to recognize the opportunities available oit.
This issue must be recognized as a priority for thenext administration.
The strength of this argument s being increasingly recognized.
The law clearly recognizes that a company isseparate from those who invest in .
The Medway estuary is recognized internationally as a conservation area.
All rivers should be officially recognized as publicrightsof way.
As he leaned towards her she instinctively recoiled.
Howard recoiled a little at the sharpness in my voice.
Shefelt him recoil from her, frightened.
Iy no recollection of the incident.
The place ‘brought back painful recollections.
In~ She stared at him in sudden recollection.
This book is highly recommended by teachers.
Consult a solicitor who is personally recommended 1oyou.
Your idea has much torecommend it.
The council has produced set of recommendations on ethics in healtl: care.
The UN Security Council endorsed the recommendation submitted by the Secretary General.
The government gave assurances that it would implement the recommendations in Jull.
The design of the breakwater was based on the recom: ‘mendations of an engineering study.
It best to find @ builder through personal recommendation.
The new housekeeper came on the highestrecommendation.
The chef comes with her recommendation.
Swiss chocolates need no recom- ‘mendation (= their good reputation is enough to recom- ‘mend them).
At the recommendation of a ‘psychiatrist, the accused will remain under observation.
We went to Corfu on your recommendation (= because you recommended it).
Allstruggles should have their recompense.
Substantial dsmages were paid in recompense.
She received a gift as recompense.
He was glven £1000 in recompense for his loss.
He sought reconcilitlon with those he had stolen from.
The rebel leader called for reconciliation with the armed forces.
They aimed to secure a lasting reconciliation between the 1o countries.
She attemped reconciliation with her estranged brother.
Spotter planes made a preliminary aerial reconnoissance of the island.
Every aspect of the original has been closely studied and painstakingly reconstructed.
It is not possible to reconstruct the complete symphony from these manuscript sketches.
Local historians have reconstructed from contemporary descriptions how the hatl may have looked in 1300.
The country fuces a huge task of national reconstruction following the war.
Noformal record of the marriage now survives.
This period of barbarian rule is poorly represented.
He has always kept an accurate record of his spending.
Medical records should not be destroyed.
She s on record os saying that she once took drugs.
He Is the latest public figure to go on (the) record about corruption in politics.
The records contain the bank details of all employees.
The records showed that the building had not been inspecied for len years.
Fossil records suggest that the region ‘was covered tn water until relatively recently.
No record exists of @ battle on thissite.
The university records go back s for as the 13th century.
Inthe~(s) The historic agreement is preserved irn the university records.
OfF the record, he fold the interviewer what he thought of his colleagues.
Under the lau, every citizen has access to their official records.
She called a press conference toset the record straight about her disappearance.
Bob Beamon'’s long-standing record for the long jump was eventually broken.
She has just set @ new world record.
If she continues like this she could beat the record.
He has equalled the Olympic record.
His mile record stood for twelveyears.
Bubka rewrote the polevault record booksduring his creer.
Unemployment has reached a record high (= the highest level ever).
These viewing figures are an all-time record for a single broadcast.
Lewis established a new world record with a time of 9.
He has an unenviable record of ilkhealth.
The teacher spoke to her about her poor attendence record.
The company has maintained an accidentfree record since itstarted business.
Her record shouws that she is able to compete under great pressure.
Our record compares favourably with that of any similarsized company.
They have e worst human-rights record among member countrics.
He has an appalling record for dishonesty.
On past records, she should 'haveno problem passing the exam.
They released their firstrecordin 1963.
The weights must be recorded accurately.
It was all there, faithfully recorded in his uncle's stiff and formal style.
The contract is witnessed by others and duly recorded.
The mother's occupation was not routinely recorded on the birth certificate.
The circumstances of ‘her death were graphically recorded in the local press.
Thetime of the accident is recorded as 6.
The names of those who died are recorded for posterity on a tablet at the back of the church.
The geographical spread of the industry in the 16th century is hard 10 ascertain, for much of itis poorly recorded.
She secretly recorded the conversation.
This CD has been beautifully recorded.
The principles of magnetic recording have been around for ¢ long time.
Make a few test re.
The recording gives an account of his kidnapping.
The recording sounds just like a live performance.
The clarinet player has lounched her recording.
The stary of his life is vividly recounted in this new book.
The study of these creatures has been conducted without direct recourse to living specimens.
The mother of an iliegitimate child had no legal recourse t the father.
Their system of dispute resolution avotds recourse to the courts.
They tried tosett the dispute without recourse to the courts.
Cit zens have learnt that they do have recourse against governments.
She had hardly recovered from thebirth of her last baby.
Your baby is recovering well.
After a minute she recovered enough to speak.
Mrs Burton was last night recovering from her injuries in hospital.
The FTSE index staged a modest recovery to be 6.
Many people make remarkable recoveries after strokes.
We wish them all a speedy recovery.
The economiccircumstances areright and recovery is on the woy (= recovery will occur soon).
Unemployment is high and economic recovery is still a long way off (= it will be a long time until recovery).
Hisinjuries have returned as there was insufficient recovery time between matches.
After the aperation she was taken to the recovery room.
Continue resuscitation until the person starts breathing and then place them in the recovery position.
The region has been damaged by acid rainandrivers are fouted almost beyond recovers.
He's in recovery from the disease.
She is wellon the road to recovery (= making good progress towards recovery).
Theeconomy s shawing the firstsigns of recovery.
Playing billiards is my chief recreation.
She cycles for recreation.
His only form of recreation is playing cards.
Thousands of recruits had been enlisted and partly trained.
She tried to gain recruits for the party.
Army recruits are all trained in first aid.
Their business schools provide recruits for domestic industry.
The specialist institutions directly recruit their own staff.
Most of the workers will be recrutted locally.
She personally re cruited the teachers.
Staff were recruited speciallyfor the event.
Peter Watson has been recruited as Sales Manager.
Soldiers were recruited from the local villages.
Some of the men were recruited into the arms.
Ten new ‘members were recruited to thecommittee.
She has set up her awn executive recruitment business in Paris.
One sourceaf recruitment s thecivil service.
This is @ constantly recurring problem which we must deal with.
He has suffered a recurrence of his hamstring injury.
Paper is easily recyclable.
Glassproducts are completely recyclable.
These materials can be recycled into other packaging products.
Thecoals glowed red in the dying fire.
The leaves looked slightly red.
Mr Grubb was Shouting and growing redder and redder tn the face.
Hecould feel himself going bright red.
Ross flushed red withembarrassment.
In the faca Charles wasrapidly turning red in the face.
She believes that humanity is in need of redemption.
After another incident ot the weekend, the club’s reputation for violence is beyond redemption.
Thereis a ee/or early redemption.
The tax brought about a significant redistribution of wealth.
Weneed to reduce the speed slighly.
Legislation progressively reduced the number of situations in which industrial action could be taken.
Giving up smoking helps reduce the risk of heart disease.
The price s reduced from 99p 10 85p.
The risks must bereduced to the absolute minimum.
The changes may result ina ‘greater reduction in employee numbers than we had previously expected.
Every effort is made fo secure the highest possible reduction in cosualties.
These simple changes will make @ substontial reduction in the fat content of your diet.
Guests staying 14 nights will receive a ten per cent reduction.
They suffered a severe reduction in incame.
The budget forecasts a deficit reduction of 27%.
Our average margins dropped to 35%, which represents a reduction in gross margins of £109 million.
Figures just released show a steady reduction in levels of emissions over the last four years.
There has been a sharp reduction in the number of accidents on motorways.
They are concerned ‘about the reduction in numbers of peaple eligibie or legal aid.
The closure of the mine led to large-scale redundancies.
The bank will be making 3 500 redundancies aver the next five years.
Sixty workers at @ clothing factory face redundancy ‘because the firm is relocating.
Those choosing to take redundoncy will receive the company's standard redundancy terms.
Redundancy notices have been sent to 200 workers.
Most of the companies’ losses stemmed from redurdancycosts.
He referred to the report in passing.
The disease wos commaonty referred to as ‘the green sickness'.
The term “alexia’ is used torefer toany acquired disorder of reading.
Shealuwoys referred to Ben as ‘that niceman'.
The referee awarded a Jreekick o0 the home team.
The referee booked three players for offensive behaviour.
His former employer agreed (0 act asa refereefor him.
Mr LaMatte in the records.
She won agrant to study political science with special reference to China.
Her diory contains no reference to the atleged appointment.
He drapped casual references to the legacy of his great work.
The article makes no reference to his first marriage.
The new constitution dropped all referenceto previous wars.
In an obviousreference to the president, e talked of corruption In high piaces.
In/with ~to (wrtten) Tam writing with reference to sour job application.
The summary should be comprehensible without reference back to the source wark.
The book is organized alphabetically Jfor easy reference.
Our charges are calculated by reference to an hourly rate.
Retain a copyof the form for futurereference.
The decision was taken without referenceto local managers.
She needs the book for reference purposes.
The book is ‘on invaluable source of reference for theart histarian.
The book is by far the best general referenceon natural history.
You'll find the information in the referencesection of your locat library.
Please send a full CV, quating the appropriate reference.
The crossreferences refer you to informatlan in other parts of thedictionary.
The date of publication should be included In the reference.
They'vetaken upmy references (= contacted the person who provided the reference), so they must be interested in me.
People interpret events within thelr own frame of reference.
Unemployment serves as a useful point of reference in examining social problems.
The matter wosoutside the committee's terms of reference.
The referendum will be held on July I4th.
The proposals were put to a referendun.
The president called a referendun that he hoped would confirm him in power.
The unions urged people 1o boycott the referendlum.
The Democrats rejected the referendum proposal.
The information system is constantly refined and updated.
Sugar caneis refined into sugar.
All programs have bugs and need endless refinement.
It is possible to add afew useful refinements tothe basicsystem.
The kite was star shoped ‘and lacked the refinementof current designs.
The sun reflected dully off the stone walls.
In Milton's poem, Satan, even after hisfall, dimly reflects his former glors.
The screen reflecs light from the sun.
The punishment should ‘adequately reflect the revulsion felt by most people for this appalling crime.
This year's budget simply reflects the fact that we have fewer people out of work.
Theexhibition isde- ‘signed to reflect thediversity of the nation and its regions.
The condition of the house is reflected in its low price.
He was left toreflect on the implications of his decision.
She paused to reflect on what she had achieved.
He caught sight of her reflection in the window.
Her reflection in the mirror lookeddistorted.
In the reflection on the glass door he could see the class behind him.
There is reflection of heat from the metal surface.
This account is only a pale reflection of the true state of ofJairs.
Young people's behaviour is a direct reflection of adults’.
Such studies donot givea true reflection of population needs.
His low level of performance is no reflection on his generalability.
Counselling should encourage reflection on the past.
On further reflection, I'm not so sureit'sa good idea.
The party needs periodof sober reflection about what went wrong.
She has some interesting reflec tions about the spiritual state of the country.
The rapid movement of an obJect towards the eye triggers the blink reflex.
The training is designed 1o sharpen the fighter's reflexes.
Alcoholcan stow your reflexes.
Thedoctor tested her reflexes.
Almost as a reflex action, Igrab my pen as the phone rings.
Almost by reflex, he helped himself to a drink.
Health core reform is long averdue.
The conservative coclition could delay further reforms or block them altogether.
They have issued @ statement advocating reform of the legal system.
The practice of global politics requires reform.
The reforms went through in spite of opposition from teachers.
The health service must be radically reformed.
Complaints about school food have become a familiar refrain.
The choir's sopranos took up the refrain.
Shoppers, so the refrain goes, are ‘never happy until they have found a bargain.
The ‘water was cold and wonderfully refreshing.
We stopped for refreshment halfway through the journey.
Light refreshments will be served in the interval.
We're allowed twenty minutes for refreshment.
They took refuige in the embassy.
They sought refuge in the mountain villages.
They were hoping tofind a sofe refuge for the night.
They found refuge from the bright sun.
Home is a refuge against the pressures of work.
The cave provided refuge from thestorm.
Many claimed to be environmental refugees, leaving for the sukeof their health.
Those who did not quallv s refugees were returned to their home countries.
Only nine per cent were found to be genulne political refugees.
The government has agreed to take only 150 refugees plus their dependants.
The Home Office has refused him refugee status.
Unemployment among the refugees has risen sharply.
They llonlygiveyou arefund if you'vegot the receipt.
He has been refused arefund on hisairticket.
You're entitled to & full refund should you be unsatisfied with the quality of our goods.
She receiveda refund on the unused tickets.
Your money will be refunded in full.
If you decide to sell your car, I hope you'll give me Sirstrefusal (= the opportunity tobuy it before it is offered toothers).
Her appeals for funds to support the couse were met with blank refusal.
Blood transfusions refusal on .
People dump their refuse in the surrounding woods instead of taking it tothetip.
Gerard refused point-blank to co-operate.
The demand for an apology was pointedly refused.
They made me an offer I couldn't refuse.
Workers should be entitled 1o refuse to work under these conditions.
She affered them cups of tea and it seemed churlish (o refuse.
He hadn't completely regained his strength.
He was severely injured and never regained consciousness.
The feam are struggling (o regain last season’s form.
He was determinedtoregain what his fother had lost.
World No 1 ronking.
When exercising its discretion, the court will have regard to ol the circumstances.
The manifesto pays scant regard to greenissues.
In regard to what has just been said).
In Zave the greatest regard for his abilities.
He is held in the highest regard by his colleagues.
The film has won critical regard in America.
David sends his wormest regards toyour parents.
My regards to your aunt (= please givemy regards toyour aunt).
Foxes were traditionally regorded as vermin.
Civil contempt is not properly regarded as a criminal offence.
The successful are often tempted to regard their success os a kind of reward.
It would be @ mistake to regard.
Many of her works are regarded as classics.
They regarded people outside their oun village with suspicion.
His eyes continued to regard her steadily.
She regarded the messwith distaste.
In 1940 a puppet regime was established by the invaders.
Education was seen as a way of bolstering the existing regime.
She called for sanctions against theregime.
It will be necessary to create a regime to monitar compliance with the agreements.
He suggestedtome that Ifollow hisfitness regime.
Under the new regime youwill beliable for automatic penalties for late submission of tax returns.
We used a combined regimen of injection treatment and radiation therapy.
Basque, Gulf, London, Pacific, etc.
Inhabit, live in Nomads have inhabited this region for thousands of years.
The country is divided into 17 autonomous regions.
This bird is largely confined to the southern regions of the couniry.
The champagne- ‘producing reglon covers 34 500 hectares.
Twenty participants from the Asia-Pacific region will be inuited to the seminar: injwithin athe ~ The animal is Jound in the northern regions of Sweden.
She earns in the region of (- approximately) £200000.
Tiie plant is found throughout the western regions of the country.
Sanitary Jacilities varied widely from region to region.
All thase appearing on the register must notify the uthorities of any change of address.
They Keep a register of all those who have contributed to the Jund.
The teacher tokes the register at the beginning of each class.
She was asked to draw up a register of suitable sites.
Their names had been entered in the register as owners of the company.
He was struck of the medical register for professional misconduct.
He has adopted an informal register sa.
On completion of the preregistration year; ‘graduates become fully registered by the General Medical Council.
About 68 per cent of illegitimate births were Jointly registered by both parents.
As I reached my eighteenth birthday I duly registered for military service.
You must register the death within three days.
He registered at his local university.
She had barely registered his presence.
He vaguely registered that the women had gone.
His eyes fatled to register Meredith’s surprise.
Certain charities are exempt from VAT registration.
You should be eligible for registration as student member.
Under the new regulation wecan grant full regis.
Samily history using the ciuil registration records.
The police are looking for a large black saloon with German registra tion plates.
On~ You will receive free CD on registration with the ctub.
Registration with the council is compulsory.
The deed of transfer must be entered at the land registry.
The certificate will have to be lodged at the registry.
The registry holds records of all major operations.
The map is kept at the local land registry.
Her biggest regret was that she had never had chil dren.
She expressed deep regret at the incident.
Tomy regret, lost touch with her years ago.
Mr Fred Fisher: without~ She thought of them without regret.
She showed no regret about leaving her country.
She enjoyed living alone, but felta tiny pang of regretfor her mother’s cooking.
The police affered no expression of regret at his wrongful orrest.
The president said that his country deeply regretted the incident.
Pierre told them some things he later regretted telling.
She krew thatshe would live to regret this decision.
It is highly regrettable that the minister cannot behere in person.
Sons followed their futhers' trade with @ high degreef regularity.
The idea is to maintain the regularity of the heartbeat.
He exercised with a regularity that amazed us.
The useaf these chemicals is strictly regulated.
They are colling for tighter regulation of the industrs.
Theatre, cinema and broadcasting are oll subject to regulation by local authorities.
The Act imposes more stringent regulations on atmospheric pollution.
The government is under pressure torelax censorship regulations.
In practice, the regulations arerarely enforced.
The regulations are designed to encourage lower consumption of water.
These regulations apply to all cows sold after June 1993.
She was wearing the regulation school uniform.
I's against safety regulations to Sfixthesedoors open.
Under the new regulations, each worker must have a rest every two hours.
There are strict regulations concerning the adoption of children.
The notice is in accordance with Regulation 7.
We only had one fullrehearsal.
He apologized for his outburst at rehearsol.
During the dress rehearsal she suddenly forgot her lines.
They're performing every night and they have another production in rehearsal.
He had all the words he needed typed outand well rehearsed.
In full Any casts that you incur will be reimbursedinfull.
Youwill be reimbursed for your expenses.
Sean gathered up the horse’s reins.
She pulled sharply on the reins.
She had the horse ona long rein.
It's the Treasury that effectively holds the reins.
This report strongly reinforces the view thal the system must be changed.
AlL this simply reinforces my earlier poind.
Violent behaviour and rejection by society are mutually reinforcing.
The door was built of oak, heavily reinforced with iron.
The minister's statement provides reinforcement for the view that tax cuts are likely in the budget.
The windows have steel reinforcement.
The crowd was very large and police reinforcements were called in.
Reinjorcements arrived too late.
She firmly rejected the suggestion that she had lied to Parlioment.
Iy, completely, flatly, out of hand, outright, unequivocally, utterly Don't just reject their suggestions out of hond.
Voters narrowly rejected the scheme.
The paper indignantly reJected charges that it had invented thestory to boost sales.
It was an il researched product that consumers rightly refected.
The proposal was rejected as 100 costly.
The scheme was reJected on economic grounds.
Children who have had bad experiences fear refection.
It takes ‘avery buoyant personality to cope with constant rejection.
The bridge was completed ir 1811 amidst much rejoicing.
She had a personal cause for rejoicing.
Job should have been an occasion for rejoicing.
There were scenes of rejoicing at the neuws.
Even in relapse there will be times when the patient’s general condition improves.
The issues raised in the report relate directly fo Age Concern'’s ongoing work inthisarea.
Our product needs an image that people can relatelo.
Attempts to relate studies on animals tothose on humans are not really comparing like with like.
The two ideas are very closely related.
The old rates were at least indirectly related to income; the new tax takes no account of a person’s ability (o poy.
The traditional approach ‘has tended toregard unemployment and inflation as being inversely related.
All the bees in the colony are genetically related.
He claims to be distantly related to the British royal family.
The energy an animal uses is in direct relation to speed and body mass.
The study shows the close relation between poverty and ill health.
The fee bears little elation to the service provided.
Similar policies were pursued in the 19705, particularly in relation to health services.
Other sparkling wines are often considered the poor relations of champagre.
Inte national, labour, personal, political, power, public, race, sexual, soclal, trade The change of government led 10 improved industrial relations.
Diplo- ‘maticrelations have been broken off between the two couniries.
Renewed efforts are being ‘made to improve the strained relations between the two countries.
Improve Relations between the twostates have improved.
He was not married, but he wasin a stable relationship.
They enjoyed a closeworking relationship.
The school hasa very good relationship with the community.
He had brief relationships with several womert.
Building strong relationships is essential.
They established a relationship of trust.
He's not very good at handling personal relationships.
She broke off the relationship when she Jound out about his gambling.
Lack of trust destroys manyrelationships.
We want fo improve the relationship that exists between the university and the toun.
In normal human relationships there ‘has to be some glve and take.
At the moment he isn't ina relationship.
The focus is on relationships among European countries.
Some people think only about themselves, even in family relationships.
What's the relationship between you and Tony? ‘He's my cousin.
There's a close relationship between increased money supply and inflation.
The fee bears liitle relationship to the service provided.
His latest book examines the relationship between spatial awareness and mathematical ability.
They discovered relationship between depression and lack of sunlight.
Wornen and men stand in a different relationship to language.
Tcan't see the relationship betuween the figures and the diagram.
The succession passed (o the nearest surviving relative.
If you die without a will, only & husband, wife, children and blood relatives are entitled to inherit your property.
The deceased’s immediate relatives, her mother and Jfather, will inhertt her estate.
He believes that interior design is the poor relative of (= inferior to) architecture.
She's looking after an elderly relative.
The names of the victims are being withheld until the relatives have been informed.
Deeply relax all your muscles.
He gradually relaxed and began to enjoy himself.
She realized howtense ske was and consciously relaxed.
Just try to relax completely.
Use music to help you relax.
Julie seems 0 be relaxing a little now.
Jenna relaxed against the pillows.
His severe expression relaxed into a half smile.
Some people take up yoga to aid relaxation.
She listens to classical music for relaxation.
Financiers are calling for a relaxation of these stringent measures.
The government has promised further relaxations in foreign exchange controls.
You need to ensure that a patient feels relaxed enough to discuss thingsfully.
She ran in the 4 x 400 relay.
There have been calls for his immediate and unconditional release.
He was granted early release.
She saw death as a welcome release from pain.
Crying gave some emotional release.
All societies have social mechanisms for the release of tension.
The new CD releases will beout on Friday.
She was released from prison last week.
The factory had accidentally released a quantity of toxic waste into the sea.
She laughed, the tension inside her suddenly released.
Figures to be officially released this week reveal that long-term unemployment s still rising.
Details of the attack have not yet been released tothe public.
He claims that the laws are antiguated and ‘have no contemporary relevance.
The boo is of particular relevance to student nurses.
The theory bears little relevance to practice.
Her ideas ‘have lost all relevance (o the modern world.
Con stant revision of the curriculum must be undertaken to ensure its continuing relevance.
Skim the book in order to establish its relevance to your needs.
Past imperial glories are hardly relevant to the present day.
Resist the temptation todiscuss topics that arenot trictIy relevant to the essay question.
Changes in design will ensure the quality and reliability of the printer.
It is importanttoassess thereliabllity of thedata.
It has a highly reliable control system.
He's a good musician and totally reliable.
Zhese measurements are reliable enough for most purposes.
Thisstatement is not reliableas evidence.
Too heavy a reliance on a particular market may be dangerous for the company.
They believe that modern farming techniques encourage an excessive reliance on harmful chemicals.
The service has become heavily reliant on government support.
The charity is completely reliant on ‘public donations.
It was the last relic of the old system.
The duke secretIy removed the relics from the reliquary.
Most of these guns are relics from the Boer War.
The news of his appointment was received with certain relief by most people.
The drugs only provided temporary relief from the pain.
She smiled with evident relicf.
The injection gives complete pain relief.
Morning brought ro relief from the heat.
The news came as @ welcome relief to Brian.
She sought relief in drink.
He found relief Jfrom his fears in a world of fantasyandart.
She could sense his relief when she said she wouldn't be leaving.
He believes that relief only comesfrom helping others with their suffering.
Relief flooded through me as the aeroplane landed safely.
She smiled in relief.
Yo your~Tomy great relief shedidn't notice that anything was wrong.
He sighed with relief.
She said that the fighting has halted almost all relief work in the area.
There was @ huge international relief effort to bring help to the stricken area.
You get mortgage reliefof 10% on the next £5 000.
No tax relicf is available in respect of this loss.
The scene provided some comic relief for the audience.
The comical characters are brought into the story for a little light relief.
Sway of decorating wood, stone, etc.
Into (often Sfigurative) The proximity of the wealthy suburb to the squatter camp throws the plight of the squatters into even sharper relief.
Her jokes helped to relieve the tension.
Respite care is intended to relieve parents temporarily of the ‘burden of caring for severely disabled children.
Fd said it was time to turn back.
Religions ‘accept, adopt, convertto, embrace, follow, turn to~ He converted to Judaism when he got married.
Islam spread rapidly through North Africa.
Islam is one of the great world religions.
Football has becomean alternative religion for many people.
God, but I don’t belong to any organized religion.
She fias no religion.
She believed that her religion needed to bedefended by philosophyand logic.
He founded a new religion.
He believes that all religions originatedfromasinglesource.
These people are predominantly Russlan Orthodox by religion.
In their religion, moun tainsare sacred.
He distanced himself from the strictly religious aspects of the music.
Yoga is essentially religious and not just phys.
They will never voluntarily relinguish their independence.
He was forced to relinquish control of the company.
She has relinquished the post to her cousin, Sir Edward.
He did not particularlyrelish the prospect of a meeting with his boss.
She secretly rel ished the thought of being alonewith him.
Inoticeda certain reluctanceamong the teachers.
His designs indicate a reluctance to conform to fashion.
She showed considerable reluctance toleave.
Ican quite understand your reluctance to talk about what hoppened to you.
These political tensions explain the reluctance of financiers to invest in the region.
With a great show of reluctance, the government granted independence to the colony.
Students may feel reluctant toask questions.
She was curiously reluctant to talk about the experience.
Children are sometimes understandably reluctant to wear ‘glosses that are ugly or uncomjortable.
The monarchy was notoriously reluctant to embrace change.
They relied entirely on these few weapons for their defence.
You can safely rely on his judgement.
Most histarians simply rely on archives.
The party could no longer relyon its traditional supporters.
Icouldn'trely on John for information.
While excavating the site for a new hotel, workers unearthed the remains of several dinosaurs.
Identify The remains have been identified as thoseof a Mr- ‘Thomas, wholived in Richmond.
They are excavating the remains of an Iron Age settlement.
Marie Curie’s remains were exhumed and in terred in the Pantheon.
Environmentalists say that the road will destroy the re- ‘mains of the world's first commercial railway.
The ivory gull often fotlows polar bears to feed on the re- ‘mains of seal kills.
Considerable remains surviveof the greatcity walls begun by Theodosius in AD 413.
Her remains lie at rest in St Andrew’s churchyard.
The burntout remains date from the 13th centurs.
The body was found among the remains of a burnt-out cottage.
He was held on remand, charged with causing malicious damage to property.
He was expelled from the party for failing 10 withdraw his controversial remarks.
The remark was directed at him.
Her remorks suggest that the negotiations may be successful.
Theremark provoked an angry response from thecrowd.
She remarked casually that she was changing her job.
Several people remarked on her outft.
He remarked to Jane that he had not heard from Sally fora long time.
These cars are remarkable for the quietness of their engines.
The player insists that he mereIy t0oka cold remedy and nota banned substance.
Onedose/ the remedy is sufficient.
The remedy was given in different strengths to a group of volunteers.
They're hoping tofinda remeds for the condition.
They will have toseek judicial remeds for breach of contract.
Desperate remedies wereresorted to in the search for food.
They advised him to exhaust all other remedies before applying to court.
When the reservoir becomes blocked, the only remedy lies in cleaning theentire system.
The Act created rights ‘and remedies for consumers.
This could easily be remedied if the authorities were willing.
The government should have taken steps to remedy thesituation.
Jane saying that the show started at eight.
Iremember Miss Scott very well.
Iy, rightly If I remember correctly, you were supposed to collect the keys on your way here.
She fonly remembered her early yeors in India.
I'll always remember this holiday.
Jutia belatedly remembered what else she was supposed to do.
He still remembered her as the lively teenager ~he'd known years before.
Sheis best remembered for her Sirst book, In the Ditch.
She gently reminded him that the baby was getting cold and.
I'm sure I don't need to remind you that we have lost our last ten matches.
An event like this serves to remind us that we do not have control over nature.
She looked at her watch to remind him of the time.
The building reminded me strongly of my old school.
Mrs Nolan always reminded Marieof her own mother.
She gave him a gentle reminder that payment was due.
We were sent a reminder about the next meeting.
This painting is strongly reminiscent of da Vinci’s Annunciation’.
The museum is one of the tast remnants of the 17th-century palace.
Their outdated attitudes area remnant from colonial deys.
She knew thatthe next day she would be guilty and fullof remorse.
He died without remorse.
He felt some remorseat his behaviour.
She was filled with remorsejor the crime.
Adulthood and responsibility seemed impossibly remate.
Jane felt remote from what was going on around her.
They de- ‘manded her remaval from office.
In a symbalic ‘move, the new government ordered the removal of the dictator’s statue.
The programme required the removal of government subsidies.
The lacal council does not allow the re- ‘moval of sand from the beach.
The old cladding can be easily remaved using aclaw hammer.
Unsightly moles can be re- ‘moved surgically.
Fittings should be completely removed for cleaning.
She removed the dirty dishes from the table.
Bee stings should be removed with tweezers.
Although itwaslate, there was still enaugh time 1o keep the rendezvous.
She made the rendezvous with only minutes tospare.
The cafe Is a popular rendezvous for young lovers.
The platoon made its way to the pre-arranged rendezvous in the desert.
Membership must be renewed annually.
The paintwork will need renewing every five years.
He sought renewal of the grant.
They Jelt the need to bring about a renewal of saciety.
Her contract is coming up for re- ‘newalin the autumn.
If you have any queries, please contact us on the num.
The ‘hotel as been campletely renovated.
The building has undergone major renovation.
The council is to carry out extensive renovations to the building.
The old Victorian ‘houseis in need of renovation.
The gallery isclosed for renavation.
The tenants were not prepared ta pay the higher rents demanded.
Discontent resulted from sharply rising rents.
The initial rent will be reviewed annually.
You put your tenancyat risk if you fall behind with the rent.
The rent charged depends iargely on the size and locality of the fat.
The landlord came around to callect the ‘month's rent.
The council receives rent on local property that it owns.
The rent will be fixed 0t 18% of the market volueof theproperty.
The large stares have pushed up the rents in the area.
The new lease will put her rent up to £200a week.
The rent will fall due on the last day of the quarter.
They Lok the landlord to court over increasing rent levels.
Thousands &y to ‘avoid the rentman so they can have marecas'h to spend.
The company has paid out a lot of money in rent.
The rent for the four-roomed house is offordable.
They earned rent from their property in London.
The movement advocated the non-payment of rentand taxes.
Tine, telephone, television, video The phone bill gives a ‘breakdownof the costof the line rental and of calls.
The company ‘has undergonea major reorganization.
The laboratory was reorganized as a separate establishment.
Thelr headquarters was reorganized into five regional offices.
The raily drivers carried small tool-kits for making running repairs.
It is unlikely that the repairs will be completed on time.
The museum is currently closed for structural repairs.
The highway is undergoing mojor repairs.
The damage meant a ‘ninemonth repair job.
Investment is needed to reduce the backlog of repairs.
The tools are old but in good repair: keep sth In (good) repair As a tenant you are required 1o keep the house in good repair repair and maintenance They are responsiblefor the ‘repair and maintenance of the buildings.
Most of the damage hos now been successfully repaired.
Natural vitamins in theshampoo will help repair domaged hair: © PHRASES the cost of repaifing sth Thiey estimate the cast of repairing the damaged roads al £1 million.
I'm having my car repaired next wee.
The refugees were forcibly repatriated from Hong Kong to Vietnam.
The loan must be repaid in full by December 31.
The proceeds from the sale will be used to repay the loan.
This moneymust berepaid to the bank.
Interest will be refunded in the event of early repayment of the loan.
The repayments can be made directly from your current account.
They are strugeling to keep up their loan repayments.
The bank has demanded repayment of the loan.
The loans were due for repayment in July 2002.
There is no point inmerely repeating what we've done before.
She faithfully repeated eversthing he had told her.
He repeated what she had said word for word.
Oh," she repeated lamely.
It may be necessary to repeat the dose severaltimes to effect a cure.
The students repeated each sentence after their teacher:to You must not repeat this to anyone.
She bitterly repented what she had done.
He came to repent his hasty decision.
She has repented of her sins.
They refused to showed repentance for their crimes.
They were released on parole for showing signs of repentance.
The repercussions of the change in policy will befelt throughout Europe.
Changes in the industry hadmajor repercussians for the local community.
The pay cuts are likely to haveserious repercussions on productivity.
She has a rather limited repertoire.
He has added considerably to ‘his piano repertoire.
She needs to build up a repertoire of pleces.
His repertoire includesa large number of Scottish folk songs.
Blues is a musical form that uses & lot of repetition.
She said Ishould ‘avold repetition of words in my essay.
At the risk of repetition (= although 1 have already mentioned this), it is worth mentioning again that young children are particularly vulnerable to accidents in the home.
Putting ir a new bathroom suite can cost as litle as £800 if you are simply replacing an old one.
These losses are not easily replaced.
Machines cannot replace people in this work.
It was built to replace the old Victorian jail.
Halogen lamps give excelLent service, but the bulbs are expensive to replace.
Shereplaced Jane Stott as Managing Director.
We replaced the old television set with newer one.
In She replaced the dress in the wardrobe.
He carefully replaced the vasecn the shelf.
Complete replacement of the roof tiles would be very costly.
Theoriginal furnishings are now in need of replacement.
Rare instruments are usually insured for their full replacement value.
He isthe most likely replacement for the captain.
She was named asa possiblereplacement for the cabinel minister.
We need to find a replacement for Jan when she goes on maternity leave.
She had a hip replacement six vears ago.
Trams are now often preferred as replacements for buses.
They earned a replay with their 1-1draw.
It was an action replay repetition) of the problems of his first marriage.
He has watched a video replay of his fall on numerous occasions.
The replay shows that it wasa handball, te.
She made a 15 scale replica of Captain Cook’s ship, ‘The Endeavour.
In~ Theoriginal conservatory has been rebuilt in replica.
Billy, Tthink if's your turn to wash the dishes, said Jane.
Her reply was simple.
No comment is his standard reply to most questions.
She refused to give a straight reply, deciding rather todefer the question.
The reportelicited a formal reply from the minister.
The questionnaire produced 9000 replies.
No,’ came the reply.
In~(fo) Whatdid they say inreply?o Iam writing in reply to your request for information on holidays in Italy.
She quickly left the room before he had a chance tareply.
He simply replied that he hadn't the faintest idea.
Shedid not reply directly to the allegations.
She replied at length, but nat to the point.
No, you'renot,” Graham replied bluntly.
She didn't even bother to reply.
He did not reply to my letter with She replied withasmile.
Reliable intelligence reports suggest that the terrorists have bases in five cities.
The case has not yet been reported in the law reports.
The commitiee presented its report to the Attorney General.
Ityped up a report about the morning’s events for our clients.
Our correspondent in Washington files a report most days.
Tl let you have a report as soon as Ican.
Auditors normally issue a report as to whether the company accounts have been prepared correctly.
We've had reports of a gang shooting in the clty.
The MPs called for a full report on the nuclear contract.
The government commissioned a reporton the state of agriculture in the country.
Following discussion, the annual report was accepted unanimously.
They could neither confirm nor deny reports that the chairperson was 10 be replaced.
Reports have indicated thata growing number of mediurmsized firms are under financial pressure.
The report notes evidence that secondary smoke from other peaple's cigarettes harms unborn children.
Therepartwenton (o lst her inJuries.
The report admits to several outstanding questions about the safety of the waste dumps.
The riots had been sparked off by police mishandling of a case, a report revealed yesterday.
The report draws attention to the appalling conditions in the country's prisons.
The report warns that more job Lasses are likely.
The report called for sweeping changes in the education system.
Criticism has been levelled at local businesses in a report out (= released) today.
According to this evening’s weather report, there will be snow tomorrow.
The pro-democracy rally came amidst re portsof dissatisfaction among army officers.
The Jindings are summarized in the report.
The department has launched a report into the bombing.
Thereconnaissance party reported back that the town was heavily fortified.
The com- ‘pany is expected to report record profts this year.
He was charged with careless driving and fuiling toreportan accident.
This is John Hutchins, reporting from Zimbabuwe.
Africa to Repart the theft to the police as soon as possible.
The incident was widely reported in the Britishpress.
We were warned not totalk to reporters.
The secret was leakedtoareporter from the ‘New York Times’.
Local businesses are well represented on the committee.
The suspect must appear and may be legalIy represented.
He was chosen torepresent Scotland in three consecutive World Cup Finals.
Representing an image accurately requiresa great many bytesof digital information.
The data can be represented graphically in a line diagram.
Intended to It is not clear what these symbols were intended ta represent.
The film purported to represent the lives of ordinary people.
The film represents women as victims.
He admitted falsely representing to police officers that the car ‘had been stolen.
There are many ways of generating a two-dimensional representationof an object.
They had a strong representation in government.
All parties won representation in the national assembly.
He claims that their electoral system ensures far representation of all parties.
Increase The partyhas increased its representation in Partioment.
The accused was not allowed legal represeniation.
They may make representation to govern- ‘menton matters affecting their organization.
Jwas the sole representative of the general practitioners.
She's a sales rep for sportsequipment (= she travels arcund selling sports equipment for a company).
The association is sending representotives to the conference.
They have recalled their representatives from the negotiations.
Management are obliged to consult with union rep.
The negoti ations were attended by representatives of severalstates.
The country has a ‘new supreme representative body.
Exhibits include a widely representative collection of railway rolling stock.
The trade unions suffered_brutal repression_after the coup.
Reports claimed that civilians were being subJected to ruthless repression.
He was saved from the gallows by a last-minute reprieve.
The railway line, due for closure, has been granted asix-monthreprieve.
The family have won g temporary reprieve from eviction.
The manager earned himself a severe reprimand for criticizing the referee.
She was severely reprimanded for accepting themoney.
The gang threatened to toke reprisals against them.
She tried to persuade the soldiers that they would not suffer re prisals if they surrendered.
There was mild reproach in his tone.
Her conducthad aluways been beyond reproach.
He glanced at her with reproach.
There was no reproach about his failure to turn up.
Poulsow this as a reproach to himself.
Her voice was full of reproach.
He gave Helen a look of bitter reproach.
She had never uttered a word of reproach.
The colours can be reproduced fairly accurately.
The book's characters are Jaithfully reproduced in the film.
In her ‘own work she simply reproduces the very conventions that ‘she claims to despise.
The map is reproduced here from a Victorian original.
The painting isreproduced here by courtesy of the Tate Gallery.
These works were popular and widely reproduced.
Many single cell organisms reproduce by splitting intwo.
Using a wide tape gives better quality sound reproduction.
The craftsmen have ensured faithful reproduction of the original painting.
The quality of @ photographic reproduction decreases with time.
They have declared themselves an independent democratic republic.
She found the idea deeply repulsive.
He was utterly repulsive to her.
She has built up an enviable reputation as a harpist.
Heemerged from the trial with his_reputation_intact.
He has the reputation of being a hard worker.
Her international reputation is built on an impressive list of publications.
Novernber is certainly living up to its reputation—we've had ‘nothing butrainall week.
She found it hardto live down her reputation as a second-rate actress.
He has staked his reputation on the success of the play.
The company's reputation suffered when it had to recall thousands of ‘products that were unsafe.
He was by reputation difficult to please.
You've made quitea reputation for yourself as a revel! ~for The company has a well-deserved reputation for being reliable.
In, submit 've put in a request for a room with a view of the sea.
We have had repeated requestsfor a pedesiriancrossing near the school.
The piay was written by Agatha Christie at the request of Queen Mary.
The writer’s name was withheld by request (= because the writer had asked for this to be done).
We will arrange accommodation on request.
The helpline was inundated with requests for information on thecrash.
The fitm i being shown again by popular request.
Auditors will be required to Drovide any information reasonably requested by the bank.
Many of the refuzees urgenily require medical treatment.
An open system of criminal justice Is a fundamental.
The public sector borrowing requirement is expected to rise.
We can arrange a holiday to meet your requirements exactly.
The government has imposed strict safety requirements on firground rides.
Large buildings have specific requirements for firebrigade access.
The school can decide which pupils will be given priority of admi sion, subject to the requirements of the law.
Surplus to re quirements (= more than is needed) 300 workers at the Jactory have been told they are surplus to requirements.
Her own boat capsized after she attempted a rescue.
No one came to their rescue until the following day.
Her wails of distress brought him running from the house, like a knight to the rescue.
New Zealand fire and rescue services carried out several extensive searches for survivors.
The navy are on a search and rescue misston.
He ‘has carried out extensive research into renewable energy sources.
She's doing research on Czech music between the wars.
One paper based on research conducted at Oxford suggested that the drug may cause brain damage.
Recent research on deaf children has produced some interesting findings about their speech.
Copies of the tape can be ‘made for research purposes.
Most research in thefield has concentrated on the effects on children.
Thhe book ‘has been pooriy researched.
She is currently researching for her next novel.
She based her work on that of eartier researchers.
Researchers found 17 per cent of their random sample to be severely depressed.
The researchers hove concluded that further Studies are needed.
In the field The book is written by experts who are well known as researchers in the field.
The plot of the movie bears more than a passing resemblance to Jane Austen’s*Emma’.
Ican see the family resemblance.
They are both colled Nigel, but there the resemblonce ends (= they are ot similartoeach other in any other way).
There is a close resemblance between her and her daughter.
Crocodiles still have a strong resemblance to their long-lost ancestors.
He does not resemble his brother in any way.
The meat resembles chicken in flavour.
Ske bitterly resented the foct that her husband had been so successful.
They grew bitter and resentful.
They were bitterIy resentful of the fuct that they had to work such long hours.
She looked at him, almost resentfulnou.
She felt resentful at the way ske had been treated.
He was very resentful of thelr success.
Hefelt deepty resentful towards his ex-wie.
She feit oll her old resentment Jlaring up.
You seem to be harbouring some resentment agoinst your boss.
He struggied (o contain his resentment.
Don't let your resentment build up.
Maggie was filled with resentment about her treatment.
The measures fuelled resentment among students.
Despite his initial reservations, he come to love London.
The employees are backing the reorganization plans, with reservations.
They have expressed reservotions concerning the provisions of the treaty.
The region is thought to have some of the world's largestuniapped il reserves.
Shehad hidden reserves of couroge.
Wehave onlya smallreservef coal.
The crack troops were held in reserve behind the front line.
He had to draw on reserves of strength just to finish the roce.
Thecompany hasdepleted s reserves tomake the purchase.
Thedividend had 10 be paid out afreserves.
The plane was fitted with fuel reserve tanks for long-distance flights.
The rail company has two trains in service and one inreserve.
They made him feel at ease, despite his natural reserue.
With~Any contract should be treated with reserve untid it has been checked.
She trusted him without reserve(= completely).
He will continue to trainand ‘may play in the reserves next season.
Thecar park is reserved for customers only: reserved cdj.
She seems quite reserved.
Versailles was the principal residence of thekings of Franceuntil 1793.
The fumily took up temporary residence in themanor house.
The family house was sold off but she remained in residence on the ground floor.
He has applied for a resi.
The flag flying above the palace indicates that the Queen is in residence.
Theuniversity has two halls of residencefor it postgraduate students.
The notice was addressedto her last known place of residence.
He was forced to resign due to ill health.
Theminister offered to resignafter his affair became public.
Two MPs threatened to resign if the government did not agree to examine this case.
They called on her to resign as chigfexecutive.
He resigned as chairman.
She formally resigned from the government.
Three members of the committee resigned over theisste.
She ‘handed in her resignation following the dispute over campany policy.
Iitness forced his resignation from the squad.
The protesters called for the immediate resignation of the minister.
She has refused to ccept the ‘resignation of her deputy.
My resig- ‘nation is effectlvefrom May 1.
His resignation announcement was widely ~expected.
She tendered her resignation on grounds of il health.
In~ Hearing that the train was running late, he sighed in weary resignation.
She spoke with resignation.
She has shown great resilience tostress.
The body of the camera makes it highly resilient tooutdoor use.
They successfully resisted pressurefrom their competitors to increase prices.
Peaple naturally resist change.
The civil population passively resisted.
He has so far resisted pressure toresign.
She could hardly resist the urge to turn and run.
Trends in the national economy conJront firms with pressures they cannot easily resist.
She was powerless toresisttheattraction that shefelt to him.
They mounted stiff resistance i the proposal.
The advancing army met with little resistance.
The attacks did not take place without resistance.
You need to build up your resistance tocolds.
Alds lowers the body's resistance to infection.
An affirmative resolution of both Houses of Parliament is need- ‘ed.
Security Councll, UN, etc.
The resolution was carried unanimously.
The resolution called for the resumption of negotiations.
The assembly adopted a resolution cpproving the scheme.
The General Assembly rejected the resolution on thesubject of arms control.
Hopes of a peacefi resolution to the conflict were fading.
The government is pressing for an early resolution of the hostage crisis.
She showed great resolution in her dealings with management.
New Year reso lution togiveup smoking.
The matter is not yet fully resolved.
Wehope that the disputecan be resolved peacefully.
The two countries have failed to reSolve thelr differenceson this.
The crisis was finally resolved through high-level negotiations.
They met in a lostditch attempt to resolve their differences.
They spent a month at a fashionable ki resort in Switzerland.
The librory is an enormous resource for historians of ‘medieval Fronce.
Time is your most valuable resource, especially in examinations.
Theschool has limited financial resources.
The database could be used as a teaching resource in colleges.
She is someone of considerable personal resources.
In, have Austratia is country rich in natural resources.
We'll get by {f we pool our resources.
We need 1o manage our resources betfer.
Heisveryclever and endlessly resourceful.
She held him inconsiderable respect.
He'treats his grandparenis with great respect.
We observed a minute's silence out of re- ‘spect for the disaster victims.
With all due respect, I think you've misunderstood what hesaid.
The chainsaw s dangerous tool—it should be used with respect.
There was one respect, however, in which they differed.
The report is accurate in all material respects.
Jfirm in respect of their unpatd bill.
The two groups were similar with respect to income andstotus.
In allimany/some respects In many respects ‘she s like her mother: in avery/this respect The marriage wasadisaster in every respect.
She s widely respected as a politician.
She was much respected for her knowledge of herbs.
The gobernment has promised to respect human rights.
Her daughters failed torespect her last wishes.
The country has again achieved internationalrespectability after years of isolation.
The theory "has now gained sclentific respectability.
It was an eminently respectable boarding school.
She seems respectable enough.
The tablets brought temporary respite from theexcruciating pain.
The storm continued for two hours without respite.
They had no respite from the demandsof their children.
Both sides have responded positively to the plan.
Their son is responding well to the treatment.
The tears resporded mog.
The government needs to listen to the public and respond accordingly.
The plants readily respond to these stimull.
We do not have a strategy.
Kind The terrorists declared all-out war on the government and the government responded in Kind.
She wasn't sure how he was likely to respond.
His condition failed to respond to the treatment.
The government responded by tightening the law on gun ownership.
Companies have to respond to the changing economic climate.
The demonstrators threw stones and the police responded with tear gas.
He responded politely to her questions, with He responded with a smile when she spoke.
Hiscomments drew an angry response from the crowd.
In response, she stormed out of the room.
The response from local businesses has been ‘muted.
Due to lack of response the event has been cancelled.
It is agreat responsibility looking after other peaple's children.
Heuwas found not guilty of murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility.
She has responsibility Jor public transport.
The bark refuses to accept responsibility Jor the mistake.
The government of the time placed responsibility for the poor on the Church.
No orzanization has yet claimed responsibility for the bomb attack.
Ducking responsibility is fatal in a democracy.
He atiributed responsibility for the killing t0 the secret service.
Full responstbility for thefiasco lies with the PR department.
He feels a strong sense of responsibility towards his parents.
The school governors carry a special burden of responsibility.
Idon't feel ready to take on new responsibilities.
The heads of school departments have particular responsibilities for the curriculum.
The clubhasa responsibility to its members.
Al ‘members of the Cabinet are collectively responsible for decisions taken.
The com Ppany could not indicate a person even nominally responsiblefor staff training.
The board is ultimateIy responsible for policy decisions.
They'reresponsible for cleaning theengine.
They held him responsible for the failure of the policy.
He was almast single-handedly responsible for the flourishing drug trade in the town.
The prime minister is directly responsible to Partiament.
The organization needs to become more environmentally responsible.
The company is highly responsive to changes in demand.
She's on complete bed rest, andibiotics and plenty of fluids.
Her heart would find no rest until she knew the truth.
Get some rest while you can.
The ball rolled down the hill and came to restagainstatree.
The dactor advised him to take @ complete rest from footbal.
Her head was resting comfortably against his chest.
She let his hand rest heavily on hers.
She rested the ladder against the wall.
His hands rested lightly on her shoulders.
It is rare for the responsibitity for causing conflct to est solely on one side.
If you're too tired to cook, let's g0 0 a restaurant.
They walked out of the restaurant wlthout paying.
She runs a family fish restaurant on the seafront.
The hotel restaurant serves a bugfet breakfast.
They argued the whole time we were at the restaurant.
We had a quick meal in a small local restaurant.
Many of the older Paintings have undergone extensive restoration.
This historic watermill s currently awalting restoration.
The palace is closed for restoration.
Protesters called for the immediate restaration of cluil liberties.
Order was quickly restored.
Diplomatic relations were formally restored.
We need (0 restore public confidence in the industry.
Peace has now been restored to thearea.
The interior has recently been exten sively restored.
The buildings have now been restored to their former glory.
She had to be physicalIyrestrained.
She could nat restrain flash of pride.
Ueffort to restrain sb restrained adj.
Sametimes the care workers need ta use physical restraint on the hospital patients.
Prices continued to rise without restraint.
Jaurnalists have exercised remarkable restraint in not reporting all the sordid details of the case.
The government called for restraint by both sides.
The gooernment is considering new laws which will further re strict peaple’s access to firearms.
Having smallchildren tends 1o restrict your freedom.
I'm restricting myself 1o ane glass of wine a doy.
Very New heavy industries were cancentrated in narrowly restricted areas.
He has a severely restricted diet.
Access tahigher education has been unduly restricted for people with disabillties.
Introduce, place The government hos intraduced tough new import restrictions.
The press asked for restrictions on reporting the war to be lifted.
The rightaf sale is subject tocertain restrictions.
The 30 mph speed restrictionapplies inall built-up areas.
The regulations were seen asa restriction on personalfreedam.
He argued that the law was unduly restrictive.
Fur the best results buy one of the more expensive brands.
My interference had rather an unfortunate result.
These actions were taken as a direct result of the strike.
Parking restrictions were lifted, with the result that the road is permarently blocked bycars.
The announcer was reading aut the football results.
The doctar is still waiting for my results.
Thaven't had the X-ray results yet.
They hope to publish thelr results next month.
Work on the scheme has been halted, pending the results of a judicicl enquiry.
Inevitably This move will inevitably result in the lossof alotof jobs.
Complacency could eastly result in tragedy.
Iy/unlikaly to Such measures are likely to result in decreased motivation of the workforce.
We gave him mouthto-mouth resuscitation and heartmassage.
High street re tailers reported a marked increase in sales before Christmas.
He struggled toretain control f the situation.
He never said a single word in retaliation.
They killed two men in retaliation for a bomb cttack the prevlous day.
Many af the children are severely retarded.
He is hoping to retire early on medical grounds.
Anderson was forced to retire because of injury at the ge of 26.
Mr McNeil is due toretire loter thismonth.
He recently retired os head teacher of their school.
Most women retire at 60.
He provided for @ comfortable retirement by selling the business.
He is going 10 come out of retirement for this ane lost concert.
They presented him with an engroved watch to mark his retirement.
After her retirement from the stageshe began todrink.
Your pension plan provides a cash lump sum ot retirement.
His father was now living in retirement in France.
He remained i the post until his retirement last year.
The age of retirement Jfor allemployees is 60.
The company suggested that he should take early retirement.
He opened his mouth (o makeacaustic retort.
He bit back a sharp retort.
Her remark drew bitter retorts from the unemployed workers.
Hewas stung into an angry retort.
How dare you he retorted angrily.
Eventually the police forced the crowd into retreat.
We covered his retreatwith bursts of gungire.
The enemy was now in retreal.
He took part in the retreat from Peris.
Into He went into retreat at his country home to escape theattention of the medio.
Shegoesona spiritual retreat for two weeks every summer.
They retreated before the Americans.
He retreated in the face of strong opposition.
He retreated into his own world.
Violent retribution soon followed.
In~ His armies invaded thelr lands in retribution.
He saw his suffering as retribution for the sins of his past Iife.
Members of Parliement clearly feared retribution from their constituents.
Sheuchenko made an emotionol return to his former club.
The victory marked Wiltiams' return to top form.
The smell of cooking greeted his return home.
He demanded the return of his money.
The UN continued to callfora return tocivitian rule.
In~(for) She gave them all the help she could, ard asked for nothing i return.
He promised to visit us onhis return.
The date of thelr return from India is a fortnight from now.
Jones is hoping for an early return to racing after her injury.
All orders will be dispatched by return of post (= by the next post).
You should get c good return on this investment.
The venture yielded a ret return of 515 million.
These figures represent a return of 8.
Our aircraftall returned sofely to their bases.
Theasylum seekersareto beforcibly returned to their home countries.
She is du to return to school in @ fortnight.
Suspicions were aroused when he Jailed to return to work on Monday morning.
Lack of cash forced her to return to work.
She had recently returned from Paris.
She never returned the book to me.
The reunion is held every two years.
Let's have party to celebrate our reunion.
At the reunion I mot a friend I hadn't seen for twenty years.
The engine is almost silent at low revs.
On average the engine does 4000 revs per minute.
The book is very revealing about young ~people’s views of themselves.
He claimed to know these things by divine revelation.
Come as, prove 7o many younger members of her audience, these performances ‘must have come as a revelation.
He claimed to have had a revelation from God.
His acting abilitywasa revelation tous all.
In~ The attack was in revenge for the deaths of two loyalist prisoners.
The bombing was anactof revenge for the shooting of two young boys.
Theaccusationswere driven by a desire for revenge.
Tax fraud costs the country millions in lost revenu.
These television companies rely on advertising revenue for their funds.
The central govern- ‘ment collects the tax revenue on behalf of local authorities.
The project will not generate any revenue until 2010.
Their government's revenues come mainly from direct taxes.
Tourdsm is the island’s main source of revenue.
In He s still held In great reverence throughout the country.
Iclosed my eyes inreverence.
Children are taught to show respect and reverence towards their grandparents.
Some peaple looking after elderly parents 'have trouble with the role reversal involved.
This represents an apparent reversal of previous US policy.
Industrial unrest and cheaper imports played their part in the company's reversalof fortunes.
If you tell children to do something, they will often do the exact reverse.
The coin has a dateon oneside and the emperor's head on the reverse.
Their forces have suffered serious reverses in recent months.
She carefully reversed the lorry up the narrowdriveway.
The car reversed into a hedge.
He re versed slowly out of the garage.
The decline in this industry has now been completeIyreversed.
To solve the puzzle, simply reverse the order of the numbers.
Theoperation i easily reversible.
The first chapter presents a critical review of the existing nursery education system.
Greenpeace will seek a judicial review if a full public enquiry isnot held.
The rent is due for review.
The matter i still under review.
The show has good audience Jiguresdespite poor reviewsin the press.
The book received mixed reviews.
Their new musical opened to glowing revieus.
Safety procedures are being urgently reviewed after a chemical leok at the fuctory.
This figure will be reviewed from time to time in the light of inflation.
Pull out your budgetandcritically revlew each lineon it.
This case should be reviewed in the light of new evidence.
The film has been favourably reviewed ina number of papers.
The text has been quite radically revised.
The procedures are continually revised—it is verydifficult to keepupuwith the latest version.
The estimate for the building work had to be revised upuwards.
The figure has now been revised from £1 ‘million to £2million.
They called for revisions to the treaty.
The scheme has recently undergone drastic revision.
In October Parliament apPproveda revision of the budget.
This has brought about a radical revision in the style of school management.
The process of revision continued at rehearsals.
The late 19th century was a time of religious revival.
His ‘work s enjoying a revival in popularity.
The exhibition has stimulated a revival of interest in the Impressionists.
Theperiod saw agreat revival in the wine trade.
In a revival in the fortunes of the Democratic Party~ofarevivalof ancient sills PHRASES a revival of interest the revival of interest in local radio signs of (2) revival He claimed the housing market was showing signs of a revival.
Banks and businesses had been rapidly reviving business activities in China.
Atempts torevive her failed and she was dead on arrival at hospital.
The Great Revolt of 1381 may have been caused by attempts to keep wages down.
There was a general revolt against the leadership at the partycongress.
Parliament came out in open revolt against the president.
The revolt was suppressed with total ruthlessness.
Revolt broke out when the government decided to raise the price of bread.
Thie regime was overthrown by a popular revolt.
The farmers rose in revolt.
Thousands of Ppeaple were killed in the bloody revolution that toppled the government.
Some Marxists still believe that soclalism will one day triumph throughworld revolution.
The activists were charged with fomenting revolution.
There has been a quiet revolution in the way writing is taught.
The coming of television brought about a revolution in people’s lefsure activities.
Marketing has undergore a revolution in recent years.
Doctors ‘have welcomed the ftness revolution.
As the eighteenth century wore on, an agricultural revolution took place.
The computer revolution has transformed theworkplace.
In He achieved a virtual revolution in the way music s recorded.
The earth turns through one comPplete revolution approximately every twenty-four hours.
The killing caused widespread revulsion.
In/With~ The children shrank back from him in revulsion.
Hetried to conceal his instinctive revulsion at the idea.
He was filled with hatred and revulsion Jfor everything about her.
She seems to feel revulsion towards her own children.
Top athletes enjoy rich rewards.
It was a poor reward for years of devoted service.
Victory brought glory as well ‘as more tangible rewards.
Weare ust starting (o reap the rewards of careful long-term planning.
Hard work usually brings its own rewards.
You deserve a reward for all yourefforts.
Glue yourself some time off as a reward.
The look on her face when I told her was reward enough.
There is a reward for information leading to anarrest.
You will be handsomely rewarded for sour loyalts.
He was duly rewarded for his outstanding contribution to the arts.
Her efforts were justly re warded with a British Empire Medal.
Idid ot expect the job to be intrinsicallyrewarding.
Her speech was just empty rhetoric.
Hewas quite prepared to usemilitant rhetoric in attacking his opponents.
Behind all the rhetoric, his relations with the arms are dangerously poised.
Little has changed, despite the rhetoricabout reform.
The pills help ta relieve my rheumnatism.
The kids made up a rhyme about a frog.
Tidying the house in the morning Jellintoaneasy rhythm.
My body rhythms had not yet adapted 10 the tervhour time difference.
Into, settie into, slip into She soon settled into a regular rhythm.
Williams is having trouble finding her rhythm on the serve.
Her ‘pencil tapped outa staccato rhythm on thedesk top.
There's rhythim in her movements.
He sustatned a broken rib.
In thelyour ~s I woke him upwitha poke in the ribs.
Hecutaff a length of ribbon.
Fe tied ‘some gold ribbon round the present.
Her hair was tied back with a black silk ribbon.
The Lord Mayor cut a ribbon {0 launch the celebrations.
She had a pink ribbon in her hair.
She was wearinga pink hair ribbon.
This discovery never made her rich.
He's fabulously rich, one of the richest men in the world.
It was mean of her only to give £1—she'’s ilthy rich, you know.
We went for a leisurely ride along the canal.
The new legislation did not have a smooth ride through Parliament.
It was a bumpy ride along the farm track.
The new teacher was given a rough ride by the class.
He took ‘her for a wild ride on the back of his motorbike.
He used 10 get free rides by hiding in the toilet of the train.
The dayhad been a rollercoaster ride of emotion.
Visitors can take a ride on steam locomotive.
She's gone for a ride on her bike.
The ride from our house to my parents’ takes aboutan hour ~to hard They rode hard all night.
Attheend of thefilm they ride off into the sunset.
The prime minister was becoming an object of ridicule.
The whole dea was patenly ridiculous.
His actions only deepened the rift between himself and the majority of Congress.
The debate has succeeded only in widening rifts within the Church.
There's no doubtthat he's i the right on this.
Children of that age don't know right from wrong.
She doesn't understand the difference between right and wrong.
We sat discussing the rights and wrongs of the prison system.
I've 2ot a perfect right to park here if I want (.
Any employee who Is sacked has an automatic right to appeal.
You have a moral right to that money.
The local authority exercises parental rights over thechildren untit foster homes arefound.
The teenagers claimed squatters’ rightsand were allowed tore- ‘main in the building.
The new president undertook to establish full rights for all minorities.
You should stand up for your rights and insist that he pays you.
The govern- ‘ment extended voting rights to eversone over the age of 18.
The landlord enforced his right to enter the property.
He renounced his right to the throne.
They gaveme my uncle’s money, on condition that I uaived allrightstohisproperty.
Tese additional guarantees do not affect your statutory rights.
The property belongs to her by/as of right.
The Normans ruled England by right of conquest, within your~s You're acting entirely within your rights.
She has every right to feel bitter: right of way There is no public right of way across the fields.
He sold the film rights for $2million.
Tukea right at the traffic lights.
Look out for traffic coming from the right.
Ours is the irst house on the right.
Keep over to theright.
Take the first right, and then it's the second turning on your left.
The books are numbered Sromrightloleft.
He'son the extreme rightof the party.
The meat doesn't taste right to me.
I'm sureif llall turn out right in the end.
He never gets anything Fight.
It may be a very easy way to make ‘money, but that doesn’t make itright.
There's nathing we can do.
She needs (o get everything exactly right for her guests.
There's something not quite right about these figures.
Dor't worry about it—that's more or less right.
You were quite right about the weather.
He grew even morerigidand uncompromising as he got older.
An entirely rigid system is impractical.
Weoperatewithin fairly rigid parameters.
She feigned sleep, lying rigidinbed.
He wentabsolutely rigid with shock.
Thecrime will be treated with the full rigour of thelaw.
Their analysis lacks rigour.
In There is a need for academic rigour in approaching this problem.
The town managed toescape the rigoursaf war.
She ware a diamond engagement ring.
He had a signet ring on hislitdle finger.
The street plan of the city has evolved as a series of concentric rings.
He had dark rings around his eyes.
Thechildren sat on the floor inaring.
He was back in the ring (= the boxingring) only a month after the injurs.
Customs officials have broken up a major drugsring.
I'll give you a ring once I get ‘home.
Always rinse your hair thoroughly.
She rinsed out her coffee cup.
Make sureyourinse all the soap out.
Short- ‘ageseventually led (o food riofs.
The clty's housing and unemployment problems sparked serlous riots.
Prison riots broke out over worsening conditions.
He was Killed in the riots.
Funs ran riot ofter the match, overturning cors and looting shops.
Make sure the plums are fully ripe before you eat them.
Some of the apples were not quite ripe.
The crops were just about ripe.
The decision caused ripples of concern among the parents.
His remarks sent a ripple of loughter through the audience.
Hefelt a small ripple of fear pass through him.
He woiched theripples spread cross the pool.
Small waves rippled gently across the ‘pond.
Shock rippled through her.
Unemployment continued s remorseless rise.
Intcrest rate, pay, Price, sea-level, tax, temperature, wage, etc.
The union isdemonding an across-the-boord poy rise of 5%.
Crime is on the rise.
Smoke rosefrom the chimney.
He made to rise but found his legs were not strong enough to support him.
Sherose slowly from her chair togreet us.
He rosecarly and went for a walk.
House prices have risen sharply in recent_ months.
The cost of health care Is rising fuster than ever.
Entrystandards inlo the profession are set torisefurther.
Alr pollution hos risen obove on occeptable level.
Unemployment has risen by 25000 this ‘month.
Gas rose in price.
State benefits will rise in line with inflation.
The government succeeded in crushing the military rising.
Standards of hygiene have fallen with all the attendant risks of diseose.
There are consideroble risks inherent in the policy.
The aperation corries an element of risk.
If you dor't revise, you run the risk of failing.
I'm not prepared to take risks—I want the equipment thoroughly checked.
Pollutants in the river posea realrisk tothe Jish.
Thedirectors will have to assess our creditrisk.
The benefits outuweigh the risks.
Miners are a high risk group for certain types of gastric cancer.
Cigarette smoking isarisk foctor for thisdisease.
Journalists in the zone are at serious risk of being kidnapped.
At the risk of sounding rude, don't you think you'd better change for the party? at~to Hesaved the child.
He knew he was taking a bigrisk by going skiing.
The building is unsafe— enter at your oun risk.
Ididn’t want torisk being late.
Idecided torisk it anyway risklife and limb the brave tour st who risks life and limb for adventurerisk losing sthamilies whorisk losing their homes risky ad.
It all sounds decidedly riskytome.
Inherently A1l business activities ore inherentlyrisky.
Bargeining ct the markets is now just an empty ritual.
Women's rolesin therituals of many religions have been limited.
They're old political rivals.
The company is well equipped to conpetewith its internationalrivals.
She has ro rivals for the job.
They were rivalsfor her love.
They were rivals i love.
Grand it may be.
Bitter ethnic rivalries withinthe region have grown in recent years.
The river was too wide to swim across comfortably.
The river is still high after the recent rain.
The river was swollen after the floods.
The river is navigable by vessels of up to 90 tons.
We crossed the river by ferry.
They've bridged the river at four points.
Wildlife groups are protesting against the proposal to dam road the river.
They're dredging the river to make it safer for larger boats.
The rocks and sandbanks meke the river hard to navigate.
This river flows into the Mediterrancan Sea.
The river winds its way through the hills.
The river ‘has risen with the rains.
Theriver rises in Bulgaria and flows through Greece to the Aegean.
The river had overJSlowed its banks.
This river dried up long ago.
There's a bridge across the river.
We walked along the river.
Let's godown to theriver at sunset.
He dived into the river.
In althe ~ Troutlive n this river.
The airport's near here but there's no direct_road.
Bringing up a handicapped child can be a long and hard road.
The government's policy on education is dead-end road.
We'll be able to go faster once we're out on the open road.
We took the wrong roadand had to turn back.
It does appear we are on the right road to success.
The new ring road should reducecity centretraffic.
Follow the road round fothe left.
We have discussed privatization, ‘but we would prefer not to go down that rocd.
Tuke the next road on the right.
Hewas hit by a lorryas e pulled out into the main road.
The track joins the main road Just south of the village.
Angry farmers blocked the rood with their tractors.
Police cordoned off the road and diverted commuter traffic.
The road runs parallel to the river.
The road twists and turns up the hillside.
The road crosses the river further up the valley.
Our road branches off to the left just past the wood.
There is still no road access to the island.
Road tax is set to rise in next month’s budget.
Road tolls can make travelling by motorway fairly expensive.
The houseacrosstheroad isfor sale.
He was walking along the road when he was attacked.
It takes three hours by road (= driving).
They live just down the road from us.
In the~ Ttiere was a dog in the road so we stopped.
We live in/on Kingston Rood.
She stepped out into the road without looking.
My car’s off the road at the moment while I recondition the engine.
There's something lying on the road.
There wasa lot of trafficon the road this morning.
Damascus © My car is back on the road (= is working) again.
We'd been on the road (= travelling) since daun and needed a rest.
This latest row couldmean theendf the roador the band.
Police haveset upa ‘roadblockon the roadto London.
They were stopped at a roadblock leaving the city.
The truck drove through the roadblock at 100mph.
The animals were allowed to roam free.
Her eyes roamed over him, assessing him.
The lion letout a great roar.
She couldn’t make herself ‘heard aver the roar of the engines.
There was a crash and a roar from the kitchen.
Police are hunting a masked robber who snatched £15 000from a post offce.
Robbers held up a bank at gunpoin.
Robbers escaped with £30 000of payroll money.
He was sentenced to four years in prison for robbery with violence.
The emperor was clad inarich robe encrusted with jewels.
Solid rock is broken down by weathering.
Ahead the vegetation broke into bare rock.
The river runs between walls of sheer rock.
Jut out A great rock juttedout into the sea.
The path had been blocked by a rock fall.
Children were looking for crabs in the rock poos.
The castlets perched on a massive outcrop of rock.
The boat rocked violently in the huge waves.
She gently rocked the baby in her arms.
The boat rocked slightly.
He rocked back and forth in his chair.
You don’t have to be a rocket scientist (= very clever) todo this job.
John's playing the teading role in this year’s play.
She interprets the roleas more tragic than Iexpected.
Hewas very good In the role.
Every member of staff must have a clear role.
Reglonal managers occupy a crucial role in developing a strategicframewark.
I've had to take on the role of mother in her absence.
He really wants to fulfil his role as godJather praperly.
He has been cast in the roleof chief apologistfor the government.
We need tofind a useful role for the volunteers in the campaign.
She has joined the team in a consultative role.
The ‘new prime minister promised a greater role for women in government.
Pressure groups played a major role in bringing about the reforms.
Falling rolls could lead to smaller class sizes.
He should be struck off the roll of solicitors.
Staf evacuated the building and rall call was taken outside.
Thereare 340children on the schoolroll.
Her name was engraved on sport'srollof hanour.
She carried the magazine tightly rolled up inher hand.
He rolled the paper intoa tight ball.
The ship was rolling heavily toandjro.
They had a brief romance in theelghties.
People find romance in strange places.
Most of her songs are about lave and romance.
Incurable PHRASES be a romantic at heart romantic adj.
Their dreams of love andmarriage are hapelessly romantic.
The roof is supported by stone columns.
The roof slapes down to the top of the windouws.
Five peaple were killed when the roof fell in.
The hurglars removed (s to climb into the roof space.
The hotel has a charming roof garden.
There are small windows in the roaf on althe~ There's a cat on the roof under your~ (= in your ‘house) Iwon't have that man under my roof again! PHRASES under one/the seme roof (= in the same building) We're good friends but we could never live under thesame roof.
Our guests are leeping in the spare room.
He emailed his report back (o the news room.
He was pocing the room nervously.
She prowled around the room like a caged tiger.
Guests are requested to vacate their rooms by 11 a.
We hired a room for the party.
The room adjoins the hotel Kitchens.
The room fell silent as she rose to speak.
The room smelled of stale sweat and coffee.
She felt sick and the room was spinning.
This wine should be served at room temperature.
Soaring room rates ‘have put tourists off visiting the city.
She flew from room to room looking for the fire extinguisher.
We had to move the furniture to make room for the piano.
The sales figures are sood, but there is still room for improvement.
She pulled the shrubout by its roots.
Despite his wealth, he never forgot his humble roots.
My husband wants to go back to his Irish roots.
They can trace their roots back to the sixteenth century.
We ‘haven't been here long enough to put down roots.
The two languoges share acommonroot.
It is a moral question at root.
The unrest has roots in religious differences.
They consider ‘globalization to be the root of cll evil.
Texpect maney is at the root of the mater.
His problems are deeply rooted in his childhood experiences.
He tied the Pplanks together with a strong rope.
She putfresh roses in the vases.
I've been asked todraw up the cleaning rota.
Areyou on the rota for cooking? PHRASES On a rota basis We share the babysitting dutiesona rota basis.
It is best to allow the rotor to rotate freely.
The blades rotate around a central polnt.
The earth rotates on its axis.
The handle rotates through 360 degrees.
The milkman does his round veryearly.
It's my turn to buy the drinks), a round of drinks We just had time for one more round of drinks.
Australia were knocked out in the secoond round.
We had a good round of golf today.
The soldiers fired several blank rounds into the crowd.
We rounded off the day with a picnic.
Leave the roundabout ot the second exit.
At the roundabout, turn right.
Therewasa lotof trafficon the roundabout.
They put the rebel army to rout.
The shortest route home is round the ring road.
We rad Dlenty of time so we took the scenic route.
Travellers are advised to find an alternative route during road repairs.
You'll have to plan your route carefully.
We retraced our route in an attempt toget back on the right path.
Our route lay straight ahead and downhill.
There are plenty of bed and breakJasts along the route.
We live on the school bus route.
We go through the same old routine every morning.
The children were confiused by the change of routine.
Bags of all visitors (o the museum are searched as @ matter of routine.
She arranged the chairs in two neat rows.
The children stood in a row.
It rained Jor five days in @ row (= without a break).
We have seals in the front rou.
He looked down at row upon row of eager faces.
We had a blazing row over who should do the cooking.
Kick up I'mgoing to kick upa row if Idon’t get my money back.
He came (o prominence in the row over defence policy.
Carol and I had a terrible rouw about how much money she spends.
Sheearns a lot in royalties.
He has received royalties on previous inventions.
She behaved as if ‘she were in the presence of royalty.
He rubbed his face briskly with the towel.
Put a little cream onto each handandrubitin well.
He gently rubbed his swollen nose.
She rubbed her chin thoughtfully.
Corbett rubbed his eyes wearily.
He began to rub his hands together in glee.
The cat rubbed against my legs.
She stood up, rubbing at her back.
Rub the cream wellinto your skin.
She rubbed her hands on her apron.
He's clearing rubbish out of the atic.
Someone had dumped their rubbish by the road.
Throw the rubbish in the bin.
There was rubbishstrewn around everyuwhere.
Many critics see the paintings asworthiess rubbish.
What was once a cottage was now crumbling heap of rubble.
The schoo! was reduced to rubble.
Police sifted through the rubble looking for clues.
She stood ‘among the rubble left by the earthquake.
Our car was buried somewhere under the rubble.
Several people were trapped in the rubble.
He ‘had a large rucksack on.
He had very little in his rucksack.
He wasn'tjust tmpolite—he was downright rude.
He's very rude about her cooking.
There were several brightly coloured rugs scattered around.
Persian rug covered the polished floor.
Kids from six years old play mini rugby at the club.
The crowd enjoyed the Fijians’ running rugby.
The cottage gradually fell into ruin.
Drink has been the ruin f her.
They've let the house g0 to rack andruin.
The company faces ruin over the new road plans.
The cast ‘would have meant financial ruin for us.
He's on the road to political ruin.
The church now les in ruins.
The earthquake I the town in ruins.
The experience has comDletely ruined her life.
The long legal battle ruined him financially.
All this mud is going 1o ruin my shoes.
You and your flatmates should establish some ground rules.
Follow these few simple rules, and you won't go fur wrong.
He made his children’s lives a misery with all his petty rules.
The aim s 1o get each member country to adhere toa single et of rules.
Inline ‘with, conform to The packaging does not conform to EU rules.
Their action was in breach of Stock Exchange rules.
The referee applied the rules to the letter (= very strictly).
The rules on claiming sickness benefit have been tightened up.
Social workers are bound by rules of confidentiality.
The punishment de- ‘pends on how the umpire interprets the rules.
The competition rules provide that a cash alternative may be given.
The existing rules allow for some flexibility.
The officials went strictly by the rule book.
According to the rules, no alcohol can be constmed on the premises.
Tuckling a plaver without the ball is against the rules.
Under this rule, only full members of the club are entitled to vote.
What are the school rules about dress? ~Tor There seems to be one rulefor therich and another for the poor.
There are few exceptions to the general rule that shops close at six o'clock.
Asa rule, hardly anybodyuses this road.
Among fer friends, casual dress anda relaxed manner are the rule.
The president imposed emergency rule following the riots.
The country remained under direct rule by the occupying powers.
He Iefthis son to rule over Soragosso.
His age effectively ruled ‘him out as a possible candidate.
Infringement of this regulation would automaticalIy rule you out of the championship.
At that time the East India Company was the virtual ruler of Bengal.
The country was finally united under one ruler.
He eventually became ruler over the Burgundians.
Court of Appeal cverturned the ortginalruling.
European Courf's ruling against detention without trial ~ by the ruling by the High Court ~In favour of The newspaper sald that this was a ruling in Jfavour of freedom of speech.
The House of Lords will ‘makeafinal ruling on the casenext week.
The door slid shut with a rumble.
His lengthy absence Jfrom work fuelled rumours that he might have been sacked.
The actor confirmed rumours that he will be leaving the serles.
The Chief Executive issued a statement 10 quash rumours of financial problems.
Rumours about an impending royal divorcewererife.
The rumour quickly swept the town.
The manager resigned suddenly amidst rumours of misconduct.
There were persistent rumours of drug taking ‘among staff # PHRASES rumour has it that .
Rumour hasit that he was sacked from his last job.
Is no truth In the rumour Thereis no truth in the rumour that the head teacher isabout to resign.
The Ethiopian is aiming (o produce his second record:breaking run of the week.
I'm going on a sponsored run lomarrow.
When he saw me he broke intoa run.
She took the stairs ata run.
The prisoners have now been on the runfor threedays.
Spurs have had a wirning run of ten games.
Manchesier United have finally ended their run of victories.
The play had a long run in the West [End.
They play began its run last June.
She was very different from the general run of American movie stars.
In the normal run of things the anly exercise he gets is climbing in and out of taxis.
He's only made four home runs all seasan.
Our team Is on 90 runs.
John can run very fast.
She ran quickly downstairs.
He just wanted torunaway and hide.
She turnedand ran blindlydown the treet.
He ran headlong into an enemy patrol.
The student union is run independently of college autharities.
Stop trying to run my life for me.
The engine was running very smoothly.
Our car only runs on unleaded petrol.
Thlngs ran very smoothly for a while.
He was given two twelve- ‘month sentences torun concurrently.
The train was running late, as usual.
He is currently the front runner for the Democratic Party presidential nomination.
Careful planning s needed to ensure thesmoath running of the event.
Ar the end of the 17th century England was still overwhelmingly rural.
The attack may merely be a ruse by the enemy ta distract our forces.
The film ended, and there was a rush for the exits, ~of A rush of water came from the burst pipe.
You can see that the painting was a rush job.
During the rush hour the Jjourney may take up to twice as long.
I've been in a mad rush all day.
We've had a rush on at the of: fice, dealing with the backlog of orders.
Ske was rushing ‘around madly looking for her bag.
Into, out of, through, to, etc.
He was rushed to hospital.
Two men came rushing into the room.
Whenever her little ‘brather was upset, Jane rushed to the rescue.
The car had been rusting ‘away in hisgarage for years.
With a rustle of wings the bird landed on thewindow ledge.
In The wind rustled in the bushes.
My job bores me—1 feel I'm ina rut.
Pd got into a rut, cooking thesame things week after week.
It wos considered a sin to work or play on.
Sabbath The speaker advocated a less austere observance of the Sabbath.
They conducted a campaign of economic sabotage.
They accused him of deliberately sabotaging the peace talks.
They filled the sacks with potatoes.
She got the sack after 20years of service.
Hundreds of postalworkers arefacing the sack.
Certain animals were regarded as sacred.
The placewas sacred to the Cels.
Soldiers who die for their country have made the supreme sacrifice.
Comfort has ‘been sacrificed for the sakeof improved performance.
This musicalways makes me sad.
Icalled Mum, sounding all sad and patheic.
She was still feeling very sad about her Jather's death.
Claudia felt deep sadness.
Our joy was tinged with sadness.
He expressed his sadness about what had happened.
Kate feltagreat sadnessfor him.
The army experts made the bomb safe.
Keep your money safe by carrying il in an inside pocket.
The water was not considered safe to drin.
Don't warry—he'll be all safe and snug in the barn.
The wood is never entirely safe for women on their own.
You should be saje enough, butdon'tgo toofar.
She claimed that nuclear power was the most environmentally safe form of energy.
They were safe from attack.
Your money will be safe with me.
They returned from their adventure safe and sound.
Appropriate sajeguards would have to be built into the procedures to avoid abuses.
The credit agreement includes safe ‘guards against overcharging.
This legislation does not adequately safeguard the rights of consumers.
We must take steps to safeguard our environment against these threats.
The seat is bolted in place for extra safety.
Jorced the climbers back to the relative sajety of their tents.
Walkways allow visitors to enter the caves in perJect safety.
The house has to be rearranged with view to child safety.
Police fear for the sajety of the missing children.
The plan was rejected by the government nuciear safety watchdog.
The police are conducting a safety awareness programme in local schools.
The car has many safety features, including antiskid braking.
The stairsare fitted with handrails on either side for safety.
The police gave him protection for his own sajety.
In~ The people want to be able to walk the streets at night in safety.
We managed to run ta safety before the building collapsed.
For safety reasons, children should rot operate the machine unsupervised.
The company was fined by the health and safety Inspectors.
The playground was closed down on safety grounds.
The refu geesfinally reached a place of safety.
When cycling on theroads, remember: safety first.
Helga’s body sagged forward.
She sagged against the door.
The shelf sagged under the weight of hundreds of volumes.
His suicide is the latest chapter in this terrible saga of greed and betrayal.
The dinghy gathered speed as the windfilled her sails.
The bay was full of yachts with billowing sails.
The yacht came in under sail and anchored near us.
The boat is preserved as a monument to the days of sail.
She advanced towards us like a galleon in full sail.
Weset sailfor France at first light.
The boat sailed serenely on towards the horizon.
English Channel down, for The ferry sails for Southampton at 5.
We sailed the boat out into the middle of the lake.
We sailed on a large ocean liner.
Sailings were suspended in the high winds.
The company operates regular sailings between Hull and Zeebrugge.
St Nicholas is the patron ‘saint of children.
The sandwiches came with a rather limp salad garnish.
Iarge, top Top salaries are liable for a higher rate f tax.
Your pen ‘sion will be based on a proportion of your final salary.
The position is rewarded with a generous salary package.
The top salary awards are completely out of line with inflation.
Workers are being asked to takea cut in salary.
The price is low to ensure @ quick sale.
Closing the sale means that you ask the buyer to say yes or no.
The Jumble sale mode £358 for cancer research.
The sale of ‘paintings totalled £250000.
The newstamps are now on sale at main post offices.
Zhe conditions of sale were posted up around the auction room.
Drugs wereon open sale in theclub.
Al proceeds from thesale of the book will g0 to charity.
The novels are delivered to newspaper shops and other outlets on a sale or return basis.
Direct sales, by mail order, were up by 15%.
High-street sales have fallen for the fifth consecutive month.
The high volume of sales makes the low pricing policy profitable.
The advertising campaign generated massive sales.
Sales failed toreach 10 000units.
Increase, rise, rocket, skyrocket, soar Sales of ice cream are up because of the hot weather.
The car manufacturer was forced to shed Jobs followlng a dramatic sales slump.
He wiped a dribble of saliva from his chin.
He wants to reduce his saltintake.
Add sult and pepper to taste (= in the quantity preferred).
The seniry gave a smart salute and woved us on.
The Queen took the salute as the guardsmen marched past.
In~ The guests roised their glasses in salute.
The retiring editor received a special salute from the local newspeper.
Ppeople of South Africa.
The captain stood to attention and saluted smartis.
He saluted Pippa with a graceful bend of his head.
The medieval Church believed in salvation through fuith and works.
Iy, more or less, nearly, practically, pretty much, roughly, substantially, virtually Your new job will beessentially thesame as your old one.
Your dressis nearly the same as mine.
We can do the (o things atoneandthe same time.
We looked at sample books to choose the furniture fabric.
Our sample comprised 250catering workers.
The survey was done using a group of 100 children randomly sampled from the school population.
Theconference gave its afficial sanction to the change of policy.
No decision can be taken without the sanctlon of the complete committee.
The school will use all available sanctions to matntain discipline.
There were strict sanctions against absenteeism.
Employers imposed heavy sanctions for union actfvity.
Some companies have broken sanctions by supplying arms to the warring states.
The UN called for sanctions against the invading country.
Slavery was once socially sanctioned.
He had tacitly sanctioned repression against the opposition parties.
Thousands of refugees ‘have sought sanctuary in nefghbouring countries.
In former times, criminals could take sanctuary inside @ church.
It had been built as @ sanctuary from World War 11 bombs.
In the~ The children played happily in the sand.
Wefound her asleepon the sand.
Hemade two rounds of tuna sandwiches.
What would you like in your sandwich? sane adi.
Having thatlistle bitof time to myselfis what keeps me sane.
She seems perfectly sane tome.
Therewere moments when he doubted his own sanity.
Getting auay t weekends s the only way I can retatn my sanity.
The paceaf city life threatens our sanity.
Stock marke: trading slowly settled down as sanity returned.
Maple syrup is made from sap extractedfrom the sugar maple tree.
There was an edgeof sarcasmin her voice.
He made the remark without ahintof sarcasm.
His voice dripped sarcasm.
With ~ ‘Your skills amaze me,’ she suid, with heavy sarcasm.
His lone was lightly sarcastic.
He was verysarcasticabout my attempts at telling jokes.
About 100 Russian satellites are orbiting the earth.
The satellite passes over Britain every afternocn.
The pictures are broadcast through a live satellite link with Tokyo.
The BEC ‘broadeast the game vla satellite.
The ilm isa brilliantsatire on Hollywood.
My current level of job satisfaction is prettylow.
He derived great satisfaction from knowing that his son was happy.
Although we didn't win, we were able to take some satisfuction from our performance.
In~ She watched in satisfuction as he opened the present.
The matter was resolved to our general satisfaction.
He nodded with evident satisfaction.
In 1find satisfaction in helping people.
Both parties expressed their complete satisfaction with the decision.
Although the team lost, their performance gave cause for satisfaction.
Thechildren were a major source of satisfaction.
It was all mast satisfactory.
The results werenot entirelysatisfuctory.
The arrangement has proved muwally satisfactory.
Wehope this proposal i satisfactory toou.
He declared himself satisfied with theresults.
Her parents seemed satisfied enough with her progress.
She seemed satisfied with thearrangements.
The education system mustsatisfy the needs of all children.
The ouners were unable to satisfy all the de- ‘mands of the workers.
Her description of events was.
The meal failed to satisfy his hunger: satisfying adj.
The company’s soles are now close to saturation in many western countries.
Demand for the Product has reached saturation.
Tabasco, tomato, white (= made from butter, flour and milk), etc.
Pour the satce over the pasta.
We had Iamb with mint sauce.
Cover the saucepan and re- ‘movefrom the heat.
Pour the pasta into a pan of boiling water.
Ske sauntered in fifteen minutes late.
He came sauntering over to meetus.
The war became increasingly savage.
Casillas made somespectacular saves.
Doctors battled to save the little boy's life.
Wemanaged to save the animals from being put down.
They saved the paintingsfrom destruction.
I'mirying to save up for my holiday.
The goalie saved brilliantly from Johnson's long-rangeshot.
Only children whose parents are existing savers may open an account.
The say potential savings are enormous.
This design offers considerable savings in fuel efficiency.
We will pass on this saving to our customers.
The ‘major savings come from reduced labour costs.
This was done, with a saving of 40% in stoff costs.
My grandfather refused to put his savings in the bank.
You get higher interest if you agree to tie up your savings for a long period.
She lost her job and had to live on her savings.
Thecouple lot their entire life savings on the venture.
The card gives you instant access toyour savings.
The people clearly saw her s their saviour.
He emerged as the potential saviour of the club.
There’s nothing wrong with him, * she said airily.
Ive forgotten what I was gaing to say.
Stephen may be righ.
Sufice it to say, I refused to get involved.
Itisfair to soy considerable amount of effort went into the project.
Be quiet, I ave something (o 5ay.
Do you have anything to say about this?to That's not what hesaid to me.
Practice makes perfect,’ as the old saying goes.
There are scveral builders working on thescaffolding.
The city would operate on a ‘more human scale i cars were banned from the centre.
In~ The paintings aresmall in scole.
Economies of scale enable the larger companies 10 lower their prices.
Benefits are patd on a sliding scale according to family income.
The company has a fivepoint pay scale.
Beaufort, Richter The earthquake measured 6.
He has risen up the social scalefrom rather humble beginnings.
Onascaleof 110 10, hescores 7.
After 10 years, she had worked her way to the top of the pay scale.
Theplanof the building is notdrawn toscale.
Themop hasa scaleof one centimetre tothe kilometre.
We could heor her practising her scales.
At birt: she tipped thescales ata healthy 7ib Soz.
Thad a shock when I'stoodon the scales.
Her scalp crawled with tension.
Thedoctors took a scanf his thigh bone.
She scanned the street nervously, looking for the twomen.
I'scanned the peper for news.
In, be implicated In, be inVolved n, ba mixed up in There have been callsfor theresignation of the minister involved in the sex scandal.
Their relationship attracted ¢ lot of Scandol.
She's aliways trying 1o stir up scandal.
The scandal ‘broke on the front poges of all the papers the next day.
He was imprisoned for his part in the bribery scandal.
The apartment was paid for by the bank at the cenire of the scandal.
Until the story was published there had beer no hintof scandal.
He has beer: ‘made a scapegoat for the company's failures.
Her mental scars willtaketime to heal.
The countryside still bears thescars of the recent hurricane.
The cut lefta permanent scar on his arm.
His face was badly scarred by the fire.
She was both physically and mentally scarred by the accident.
Their minds were scarred with bitterness.
The ac cident left him permanently scarred.
Medical supplies were growing scarce.
Skilled workers were becoming increasingly scarce.
Old properties in the town ‘have acquired ascarcity value.
Of There Is a great scarcity of food in the drought-stricken areas.
In times of scarcity, lions will travel great distances in search of food.
It wasn't a serious ‘heart attack, but it gave him & terriblescare.
The government used scare tactics to get parents to have their children vaccin ated against the disease.
He wasn't ll, Sophie decided.
Hewas just plain scared.
If's only a little injection.
It's nothing to be scared about.
He wrapped his scarf around his neck.
She had a scarf tted over her head.
Her hair was covered by a silk scarf = Special pageat CLOTHES scarlet adj.
He had gone absolutely scarlet with embarrassment.
Large vases of flowers were liberally scattered about the room.
Broken glass lay scattered over the floor: throughout, with The whole area was scattered with debris.
The more likely scenarios that the president will resign and an election will be held.
Heenjoyed playing out the various scenarios in his ownmind.
In althe ~ In a worst-<ase scenario, the disease will reach epidemic proportions.
Michael Potter attended thescene.
An ambulance soon arrived at the scene of the accident.
The police were called to the scen.
Police say the man died at the scene.
Photographers were on the scene in seconds.
Thecriminal often revisits the sceneof the crime.
She opened the door on an extraordinary scene of disorder.
Paramedics tended the wounded in ‘scenes reminiscent of wartime.
The star arrived amidst ‘scenes of excitement.
He painted scenes of country life.
The battlefield was a scene of utter carnage.
What you need is a complete change of scene.
Jone part of book, play, etc.
The film has several steamy bedroom scenes.
She plays the love scenes brilliantly.
The scene is set in the first paragraph with an_ account of Sally's childhood.
The little girl stole the scene from all the bigstars.
Then the sceneshifts tothe kitchen.
Inajthe ~ He appears in the apening scene.
There is a dramatic fight scene between the (wo brothers.
There have been a couple of ugly scenes between him and the manager.
Heis heavily involved in the local art scen.
Owen arrived or the internationalscenein the 1998 World Cup.
The film’s director isa newcomer to the Hollywood scene.
Jformab Hillwalking isnot my scene, so I'stayed at hoe.
The village is charming and the surrounding scenery superb.
In (the)~ The hotel lies amidst spectacular mountain sceners.
The river passes througha rich variety of scenery.
Thatlable is partof the scenery for Act 2.
This flower has no scent.
The air was filled with the scent of lilac.
The flowers give off @ heady scent at night.
From the vine outside came the scent of honey.
The scent of pine filled the room.
Thedog was on thescentaf @ rabbit.
The hounds have the scent.
The cat had Ieftas scenton the sofa.
Oneof the hounds ‘had picked upthe scent of afox.
She dabbed some scent or.
She reeked of cheap scent.
Thealr was scented with thesmellof pines.
He has managed toconvince even the sceptics.
Sceptics will argue that no such scheme has ever proved successful.
She is a sceptic about the dangers of global warming.
Events since the elections have proved the sceptics right.
They remained openly sceptical about her promises of improvement.
He is deeply sceptical about the value of teaching poetry.
Many were sceptical as to whether the plan would succeed.
They are highly sceptical of political leaders.
Initial My initial scepticism wos replaced with respectful admiration.
She has a healthy scepticism towards the claims in the company’s report.
This theory was initially received with great scepticism by her fellow scientists.
He expressed a great deal of ‘scepticism about the valueof psychoanalysis.
She has an very demanding schedule.
At this stage everything is going according toschedule.
We had to work ¢ lot of overtime to mee the strict production schedule.
The president took time out of his busy schedule to visit our school.
In the~ Allow time in the schedule for holidays and llness.
The project i right on schedule.
The meeting was originally scheduled for March 12th.
Thefilm is scheduled for release next month.
The project is based on a successful pilot scheme in Glasgow.
He has an ingenious scheme to atrract funding.
She's come up with @ hare-brained scheme for getting her novel published.
The scheme applies to families with three or more children.
Inalthe~ Schools i thescheme will receive an annualgrant.
Under thescheme, land would be sold to building companies.
French, history, literary, etc.
Twoaf the girls hereare on scholarships.
Hewon e scholarship to Queens’ College, Cambridge.
She attends a special school for mumn with learning difficulties.
His mum kept him off school for tuwo weeks when he wasl.
She's gotfour children of school age.
We're going to play football after school.
Thelr son's ct theschool near the station.
She received the best schooling the fown could offer.
Many children are disadvantaged by poor schooling.
He as hed no formal schooling.
She continued with her schooling after a long period of iliness.
His essay is not based on hard science.
Politics is as much an artform as n exact science.
The magazine contains a lot of populer science.
The life sciences include biology and botany.
Metearology is the science of the weather.
Fis ex- ‘periments heve achieved notorety in the world of science.
Her curiosity was purely scientific.
His ap- ‘proach wasnot very scientific.
She gave alecture to 2 000fellow scientistsin Kyoto.
The scientists estimate that nearly two-thirds of the continent has become drier aver the past 60 years.
Scientists have developed an injection that doesn't usea needle.
Don't use these scissors ta cut paper or card.
These scissors don't cut very well.
Rose scolded the child gently for her bad behaviour.
In her new house she had full scope for her passion for gardening.
These courses glve students more scope for developing their own ideas.
There is limited scape for creativity in my Jjob.
The scope of the exhibitionis disappointingly narrow.
The geagraphical scope of product markets has widened since the war.
Tre subject lies outside the scope of this book.
In (sth's)~ The survey is too limited in (its) scope.
These disputes fall within the scope of the local courts.
The score was close in the final match.
Il keep (the) score.
Figo levelled the scores with a curling free Kick.
At halftime the score stoodat 3-0.
Inamoto had a good game but fuiled 10 gt his name on the scare sheet (= failed to score).
Sume sctentists claim that vitamins will ‘boost your child's IQscore.
Most ten-yearolds had scores ranging between 50and 70.
She got anunusually low scarefor creativity.
Cunningham broke awayand ran some 40metres to scare easily.
Peter Walker hasyet to scorethis season.
The England team failed to score against Italy or.
She has nat yet scared for her new club.
It was Robertson tho came closest to scaring.
Zidane opened the scoring in the sevent} minute of the game.
In the key area of negotiation, women scored highl.
She reserved her most withering scorn Jor journalists.
Abuse and scorn were heaped upon the new tax.
He stared with some scorn at his interviewers.
Sheexpressed her scorn for the rules.
Ina~ Her brows drew together ina scouwl.
He looked up at me with a scowl.
She scowled darkly and.
There was a mad scramble for the exits.
In althe ~ lost my sister in the scramble for a seat.
They scrambled frantically over the piles of debris.
She ‘managed to scramble over the wall.
He scrambled awkwardly to his feet.
She scribbled the address an a little scrap of ‘paper.
The pigs are fed on food scraps.
The engine has been sold.
Policeestimate the scrap value of the lead at around £8 000.
In afthe ~ He looks like he's been in a scrap.
Ske carefully scraped away the top layer of paint.
He scraped the car against the garage wall.
Patrick lifted the gate to prevent it scraping along the ground.
Her hair was scraped back from ‘her face.
Iscraped the carrots witha knife.
The wood ad been scraped clean.
His only injuries were some minor scratches above his eye.
Sheemerged from the wrecked vehicle without a scratch.
Tve got some nasty scratches on mylegs.
The tablehad been badly scratched.
He kept scratching at his nose, on I scratched ‘myarm ona rose bush.
She scratched his face with ‘hernails.
His screams echoed through the empty house.
She reacted to the news with hysterical screams.
Despair shook him and he screamed silently in the darkness.
Marion screamed after them, ‘Stop! Stop!" at She screamed at me (o get out of the way.
The trapped passengers screamed for help.
People ran for the exits, screaming out in terror.
Peaple were staggering ‘about, screaming with pain.
The baby was screaming its head ff.
She appears regularly on the small screen (= on television).
Thestar’s lovely face filled the screen.
The screen flickered, and then everything wentdark.
Thiey play deadly rivals in theshouw but they are good friends off screen.
She is remembered ‘mainly for her performances on screen.
Information can beviewed on screen or printed out.
The image came up on thescreen for a few seconds.
The room was divided by a folding screen.
His desk was discreetly placed behind a screen.
The shed is neatly screened by a hedge.
The building is completely screened from theroad by high bushes.
All fuster parents are carefully screened.
All pregnant women are to be screened for the infection.
Screw the drain cover down tightly.
She screwed the lock inta the door: onfonto I screwed the lid back on the jor: 10 The bed was screwed to the floor: * PHRASES screw sth in placefinto position I screwed the curtainrail inplace.
The students were all scribbling away furiously.
Cyrillic, Hebrew, Japanese, etc.
Archacologists have ‘had trouble deciphering the script.
Shewrites in a neat copperplate script.
Christian, Hebrew, Hindu, Jewish, etc.
She read from thescriptures.
He teaches the holy scriptures as he travels around.
You won't find this moral precept in the scriptures.
The vegetation consisted of low scrub.
The horses stood near a patch of scrub.
She scrubbed at the child's face with a tissue.
He scrubbed the blood from his shoes.
The table had been scrubbed clean.
Some persuasionwould be required to avercome her scruples.
All partsof the aircraftare closely scrutinized Jfor signs of wear or damage.
The company has come under intense scrutiny because of its environmental record.
International, judicial, medis, parlismentary, public, scientific The activities of the committee are subject to public scrutiny.
The testimony of the chief witness doesn't bear scrutiny.
The company is under scrutiny by the Inland Revenue.
Ppeople in the crowd.
He was injured in a scuffle at the football match.
He was involved in a scuffle with photographers.
He was court sculplor to Alexander the Great.
She creates sculptures out of scrap materials.
The sea was too rough for sailing in small boats.
The fishing boats headed for the open sea.
The ship put to sea (- left port) in deteriorating weather conditions.
They were lost at sea when their shipsanken route for Madeira.
She stoodon the clif staring out to sea.
In recent years the sea has risen by a couple of inches.
The sea has retreated littlesince the river was diverted.
We spent three weeks at sea.
We sailed across the Black Sea in a yacht.
They live by the sea.
He has sailed the seven seas.
Environmentalists claim there is no reason tocultseals.
He broke the seal, and opened the envelope.
Her report was given the sealof approval by senior managemernt.
The contalners must be carefully sealed so that no air can get in.
The unit is completely sealed.
The nuclear plant would be effectively sealed off from the world.
He sealed the bag tightly withsticky tape.
The contracts are already signed and sealed.
She sewed the seam with small neat stitches.
It 1ok hours to unpick the seams.
The film is bursting at the seams with good performances.
Their marriage was coming apart at the seams.
They're still mining a rich seam of ‘high-grade coal.
Police conducted a routine search of all the houses in the area.
Sfingertip search of the area.
The police immediately launched a nationwide search for the killseat er.
Zhe search for the missing men was conducted in poor weather conditions.
The search was called off when it began togetdark.
The police mounted an extensive search operation.
This is one of the fastest Internet search engines.
We're constantly in search of new talent.
The area has been thoroughly searched.
For the rest of the mor ing he searched aimlessly through the town.
Police are still searching for the missing child.
He searched in his pocket and found a few coins.
We searched the house from (op to bottom.
Every summer we went to the seaside for two months.
They ‘havea cottage by the seaside.
In, come inta Melons are ust coming Into season.
The resort gets overcrowded in peak scason.
The hotel s almost empty in the off season.
It was the Jfinal race of a hard season.
The tear trained hard during the close season and won its firstfive matches.
Our team won the trophy for the second successive season.
Season ticket Folders do not ‘have toqueue.
There uere no empty seats left in the hall.
Seasons have~ Perhaps we will have a good summer this year: ‘spand summer/winter Ispentthe winter indoors.
The days become shorter and temperatures dropas autumn approaches.
Autumn arrived early that year: winter sets in The aid must reach the refugees before winter setsin.
As the summer wore on food became scarce.
The museum is open daily during the summer months.
Itwas springtime and the slopes were ablaze withalmond blossoms.
The wood is carpeted with bluebells in spring.
The repairs will be carried out over the summer: through/throughout (the)~ The meat i salted so it keeps through the winter: for (the)~ ‘She's gone to Ireland for the summer.
The winter of 2001 was especially cold.
It rained all summer long.
Healways worea short-sleeved shirt, even in the depths of winter: Honda 750.
We had ringside seats for the boxing match.
Please fake a seat.
The best seats were occupied by the Jfriends and families of the performers.
It is very uncomJortabie to sit on these seats.
The audience resumed their seats for the second half of the play.
We had hardly settled into our seats when thefirst goal was scored.
Ina/the~ Theman in the passenger seat seemed to e asleep.
He leap(ou(of his seat when he saw the rat.
Imanaged toget some seatsfor the ballet.
He lost his seat in the lastelection.
He seated himself comfortably at the Jfoot of the bed.
The car seats six comfortably.
Ramirez was seated ata table near the windouw.
She seated herself on the sofa.
Please remain seated until yourname iscalled.
By law, you are obliged to wear seat belts.
The auditorium has comfortable seating and modern acoustics.
We need to work out the seating plan for the wedding.
There is seating for 250 people.
We managed to find.
For holidays, I prefer the relative seclusion of the countrysid.
For a heart-stopping second he thought he had lost his keys.
This will only take a second.
Forasecond Ithought you were my mother: in a~I'll be with you in a second.
Within seconds he had disappeared from view.
If he'd reacted a fraction of a second later, he would surely have died.
The end of the match is only a matter of secondsaway.
Tie young German runner finished a creditable second.
Hegot a good second in histor.
On second thouglts, maybe I won't apply Jfor the job after all.
He dismissed the rumour without a second thought.
We're beginning to ‘have second thoughts about buying a car.
All the researchers or: the projectare sworn to secrecy.
The drugs squad operates in the greatest secrecy.
The organization has managed to maintain secrecy about its activities.
Innermost, intimate That evening she had revealed many of her innermost secrets.
Thelr affair is an open secret.
She let us into her secret—she'd got engaged.
Thefilm stars were married in secret to avoid publicity.
He refuses to make any secret of his political allegiarnces.
They managed to keep the party more or less ‘secret from Christine.
Agriculture, Defence, Econamic, Education, Employment, Energy.
Environment, Financial, Foreign, Health, Home, Trade and Industry, Transpart, Treasury, etc.
They were very secretive about their plans.
Large sections of the forest have been destroyed by acid rain.
He works in the embassy's political section.
The book is divided into chapters, sections and sub-sections.
You'llfind the book in themusic section.
The tablecomes in sections.
It began as a religious organization, but these days it is purely secular.
We livein a largely secular society.
Thecrates had ot been properly secured to the truck.
Victory was not going to be casily secured.
They Jailed to secure the release of the prisoners.
It's important ta eep your documents secure.
Iinally felt secure enough in myself to have a child of my awn.
The house has been made secure against intruders.
They have the security of £0od home.
He gave her the emational security she needed.
Screw windows ta the frame for maximum security.
We need ta tighien security around the hotel during the president’s visit.
The leaking of secrets fram the DeJfence Minisiry has compramised national security.
The barsareto provide security against break-ins.
For security reasons, passengers are requested not to leave any luggage unattended.
His father agreed to stand security for his son's house-purchase loan.
The bank will make a loan against the security of the lender’s house.
She pledged her jewellery as security for a £50 000 loan.
The attack victim is currently in hospital, under heavy sedation.
The doctor gave her a ‘mild sedative to help her sleep.
Intinitely These opportunities seemed infinitely seductive.
His wards had a ‘soothing, almost seductive quality.
We could just see the hotel in the distance.
Icould see the boat quite clearly nou.
He was surprised to see Lucy standing there.
I'm glad to see that you're keeping well.
Oh, let me see! © PHRASES turn and see He turned and saw her smile.
He didn't live to see his grandchildren.
She's gane to see the mechanic about getting her car repaired.
Dor’t worry, I'llsee you home.
Ican see why you wereso angryabout it.
It is difficult (o see haw to get round this problem.
Let's see what happens.
Has the past came yet?” ‘I'll just goand see.
Is he going (o get better?' ‘Idon’t know, we'll just have to wait and see.
Vis tree produces very hard seeds.
The plant will set seed in June.
She grew all the braccoll plants from seed.
Most seeds are spread by the wind.
The catalogue has hundreds of different varieties of seeds.
Hewas desperately seeking a way to see her again.
The power had gradually seeped auay.
Blood was seeping slawly from the wound.
Water was seeping out of the tank:.
The damp seeped through her thin shoes.
Shewas seethingat the insult.
Heclenched his/ists, seething with anger.
Jobs were strictly segregated by gender.
The women were segregaled from the male workers in the factory.
The common room was segre- ‘gated intosmoking and non-smoking areas.
Women's work has always been highly segregated.
Partitions provided a segregation between the smoking and non-smoking areas of the canleen.
He wos immediately seized and thrown intoprison.
She seized him by the arm.
He seized the book from her hand.
Thewrestlersiry toseize ‘hold of each other.
He was quick toseize on this idea.
He had falled to eize his chance.
The rumours were eagerly seized on by thelocal press.
Customs have made thelr big- ‘gest ever seizure of heroin.
The winning entry will be selected at random by computer.
The program automatically selects and stores the most frequentlyused data.
The design of the course allows students to select modules according to their interests.
She 'hs been selected for the Ergland team.
You can select ‘goods from our catalogue.
Although this was a very highly selected study group.
This arthalogy is well se lected and presented.
Notural selection is a key element of Darwin's theory of evolution.
She tok a long time to makeher selection.
She hopes to win selectionfor the Olymplc 800 metres team.
We interviewed a random selection of teenagers.
The final selection of winners will be announced atthe end of the event.
The shop offers a wide selectionof wines.
T'he list provided here is neces.
The human memory is notoriously selective.
He is quite sélective about what he studies.
Most of the girls are extremely selective in their choice of boyfriends.
He put his whole self into the performance.
Her private and public selves were vastly different.
He's his usual cheerfulself again.
She knew his better self would struggle toserve her best interests.
We look forward to seeing Mrs Brown and your good self this evening.
He was afraid to reveal his innermestself.
In conversation she exudes wit and self-assurance.
He thoughta few kind words might boost her self-confidence.
Ske had an air of selfconfidence that he admired.
He studied her ina way that made her very selfconscious.
He started (o get self-conscious about his weight self-contained ad).
The flat is completely self-contained.
She struggled to keep her self-control.
He told potice that he had acted in selfdefence.
These truths were by no means selfevident when Galileo first suggested them.
It was self-evident to her that anything sowonderful could not have evolved accidentally.
In your own self-interest Directors may be tempted toact in their own self-interest.
People are basically selfish.
He chose not to resign to keep his selfrespect.
In These people have now become almost selfsufficient ingrain crops.
They arestill trying tosell their house.
The novel was expected to sell between 1000and 1 500copies.
The company has been forced to sell land to recoup some of the losses.
The property proved hord tosell.
We sell these little notebooks at £1 each.
They sold their hose for £147 000.
She sold her car toa friend.
Many banks ore willing to buy and sell shares on behalf of customers.
Derelict inner-city sites could be sold off cheaply for housing.
The film lacks any semblance of realism.
She bared her teeth in a semblanceof asmile.
Hetried torestoresomesemblonceof normality totheir home lie.
Professor Mackay will give a seminar on musical settings of Verlaine's poetry.
Promotion in the jobwas by seniority.
On the death of the captain, the officer ‘nextin seniority assumed command.
He felt a tingling sensation down his side.
Most people enjoy the sensation of eating.
He gave way fo pure sensation.
She had no sensation in her hands.
He has an acute sense of smell.
She lost her sense of hearing early in life.
He argued that art should appeal to the senses rather than the intellect.
Her ‘senses recled as she foughtfor consciousness.
Although hecan't see, ke learns a lot through his other senses.
He felt a deep sense of relief after the phone call.
He seems to have lost his sense of reality.
He has no dress sens.
Common sense tells me I ‘should get more sleep.
He at least had the sense to call the police.
There's a lotof sense in what he's saying.
We'll try and talk a little sense into her.
There’s no sense in going home before the film.
The novel is about educatior in its sensitivity widestsense.
That word has three senses.
Thatsentence doesn't make sense (-~ has nomeaning).
In a very real sense, post-war repression was the continuation of the war.
Maybe she could just sense what Ineeded.
It was an absolutely senseless actof violence.
He lay senseless outintherain.
The thugs beat him senseless with a baseball bat.
The branch of a tree knocked one of the riders senseless.
This approach seems very sensible tome.
In thestate I wasin, this seemed a perfectly sensible remark.
It seems hardly sensible.
Ben's usually pretty sensible.
That advice sounds sensible enough.
Her experiences had ‘made her sensitive to other people's troubles.
Horsesarevery sensitive to their riders’ moods.
Teenagers are often very sensitive about their appearance.
Hewas acutely sensitive to criticism.
Her eyesarevery sensitive to light.
The bat's hearing is remarkably sensitive.
Iy, keenly, remarkably, very The equipment is highly sensitive.
The probe is sensitive enoughto detect the presence of a single microbe.
Many doctors lack sensitivity when dealing with their patients.
With~ She broke the news (o us with great sensitivity.
She is not known for her sensitivity in dealing with complaints.
There is deep sensitivity over the treatment of minority groups.
The course teaches sensitivity to body language.
Try to keep your sentences short.
He can barely form a grammatical sentence.
The judge will pass sentence on the accused this afternoon.
He will have taservecifesentence.
Hespenta week in custody on remand awaiting sentence.
She could Jfacea long prison sentence.
The death sentence may be commuted (o life imprisonment.
The ofJfencecarriesa maximum sentenceof two years in prison.
He has been in prison for two months under sentence of death.
They had been sentenced for murder.
He was sentenced to two years in prison.
The judge sentenced her t life imprisonment.
Al these nable sentiments have little chanceaf being: put into practice.
The people are rencwned for their deep religious sentiment.
He agrees with the sentiments expressed in the editorial.
It would bea mistake to ignore their strong sentiments on the issue.
The Killings at the weekend helped arouse popular sentiment against the arganization.
Church and State were not easily separable in this period.
The two things were never identical, but nnever separable from each other.
These tuwo branches of the cience have now become clearly separated.
One cannot easily separate moral, social and political issues.
It was impossible to separate therivalfans.
The disciplines of science ‘and engineering are not aluways sharply separated.
Thetwo groups became widely separated.
She is separated from her husband.
The women are kept separate from the men.
The waste water is kept entirely separate from the rainwater.
The twa groups are essentially separate and independent.
She is visiting her familyafter a long separation.
He's been asked to makea sequelto*Peter Par.
Some important new characters appear inthesequel.
Theaffair had a strange sequel.
The immediate sequel to the price rises was uprisings acrass the countr.
Complete the following sequence:1,4,8, 13 .
We had to follow complex sequenceof movements.
The book is more satisfying if you read each chapter in sequence.
The heroine dies in the closing sequenceof thefilm.
Her face had an expression of absolute serenity.
She escaped to the comparative serenityof the kitchen.
She was able to face death with serenity.
Visitors to the police station should report tothe station sergeant.
He is in hospital for a whole series of tests.
Australia won the test series against England.
The quartet will be performing ina sertesof lunchtime concerts.
She has a sma!l part in a drama series for radio.
We watched the final part of a serieson famous gardens.
By this time the riots were getting serious.
He became serious all of a sudden.
He maintained an attitude of high seriousness.
The Joke did not obscure the underlying seriousness of his “point.
Only later did he realize the full serfousness of his offence.
The problem was not treated with the seriousnessit deserved.
She spoke with great seriousness of the ‘hardships she had endured.
You con't in all seriousness think they Il give you the job!take, treat, etc.
He fell asleep during the sermon.
He gave a long sermon against abortion.
She preached a sermon on forgiveness.
An army of servants waited on the king’s household.
The duchess arrived, surrounded by her retinue of servonts.
Pour the sauce over the pasta and serve immediately.
Cover and chill the salad until ready to serve.
They served a wonderful meal to more than 50 delegates.
The delegotes were served witha wonderful meal.
Serve the lmb with new potatoes and green beans.
The quiche can be served hotor cold.
She served the family faithJully for many sears (= asa servant).
She served in the medical corps.
He served under John ‘Major in the early 1990s.
Essential services (= the supply of water, gas, electricity) will be maintained.
Find out what services are available in your area.
We need t0 expand this valuable service to other cities.
This government has systematically run down pubtic services since it took office.
If you would like a meal in your room, please call room seruice.
Our main concern is 1o provide quality customer service.
We guarantee first-class service.
He died on active service.
All 18year-old males are required todoa year's military service.
Hesawserviceduring the FirstWorld War.
You have done us a great service.
The cabin staff are at your service throughout the light.
We need the services of a g0od lawyer.
Most of the boys went straight intothe services.
We will be operating a reduced service while englneering work takes place.
Bus companies are planning to lay on extra services.
This bus is not in service.
The company offers direct, fast and frequent services between large towns and citles.
The car was fully serviced last month.
You should get all gas appliances regularly serviced.
The president addressed a closed session of Congress.
The session adopteda resolutionondisarmament.
The court is nowin session.
The man fell in the canalafter a heavy drinking session.
The college runs training sessions every afternoon.
These (o specles sharea common set of characteristics.
Agrammatical choice is drawn from a closed set of options.
She had a complete set of these dining-room chairs but it was broken up after she died.
Inalthe~ There areten pictures in theset.
Theplate s partof aset.
Off set, the two actors became close frlends.
All the cast are on the set throughout.
In straight sets Rusedski won in straight sets (=his opponent won none) set ad).
The Iialian team looks set for victory.
Her father is dead set against the mar.
His research has suffered a temporary setback.
He slumped down exhausted on the settee.
Shefound her glasses lying on the settee.
The hospital is an unlikely setting for an art auction.
The French Cluboffers the chance to practise your language skills in ¢ sclal setting.
In a work setting, more formal language would be used.
The park provides the perfctsetting for the play.
Theoven should beat a highsetting.
Hopes of settling the conflict peacefully are fading.
The matter has not yet been satisfactorily settled.
With After sixmonths, the company finally settled with the unions.
He has now settled permanently in London.
Shefelt she wasn't yet ready tosettledotwn.
He settled himself more comfortably in his chair.
He settled back in his chair to watch television.
She settled down for a quiet doze on the sofa.
She kept fussing around.
The kids settled happily info their newschool.
He is happily settledwith third wife Gladys and their twochildren.
Nurses refused to accept a pay settlement less than the rateof inflation.
The union has negotiated a temporary settlement.
Lawyers areseeking an out-of court settlement.
The Romans established a settlementon the south shore.
Ininto sth When the frst settlers moved into the area they faced immense hardships.
French settlers founded New Orleans.
France ~in Dutch seitlers in Cape Town severe ad).
Cases of plant poisoning severe enough towarrant hospital admission arerare.
She wagged her finger with mock severity.
The squares of fabric were all sewun neatly together.
He sewed up the tear with needleand thread.
He sewed the patch onto the back of his trousers.
In some parts of the country row sewoge is pumped straight in the sea.
Sewage should be treated in a proper disposal system.
She took in sewing to supplement her in come.
At that oge they con started becoming shy with the opposite sex.
She's had a sex change operation.
Irrespectivelregardless of sex The ward ‘man’ can refer to.
He wos convicted of having unlawful sex with an underage girl.
Films containing explicit sex are banned.
She had never had sex before.
She wants to be known as a singer rother than osa sexsymbol.
She was shocked by his blatant sexism.
Sexism is rampant in many institutions.
Rape is committed where sexual intercourse takes place without consent.
She denied having had sexual intercourse with him.
Her overt sexuality shocked cinema audiences.
Victorian women were rarely allowed to express their sexuality.
With He couldn’t come to terms with his sexuality.
Let's move into the shade.
The huge trees offered shade from the sun.
The rooms were decorated in delicate paste ‘shades.
Hisface urned an even deeper shode of red.
Touwels in warm shades can softer the room.
This wool is available in 18stunning shades.
The sea gllstened in shades of blue and em erald.
He threw out his old suits, all in shades of grey and brown.
This plant prefers alightly shaded position.
She shaded her eves ogainst the fierce sun.
The ouse lay in dark shadow.
The ‘boat’s sall casta shadow on the water.
Usea desk light to produce a strong shadow.
The candles on the table threw ‘huge flickering shadows against the wall.
The streets were now filled with terrible shadouws.
Suddenly a huge figure loomed up out of the shadouws.
The evening shadows were beginning 10 foll.
Deep shadotes lay across the small clearing where they sat.
As the shadouws lengthened, the men drifted home for their tea.
The shadouws of the clouds passed over us.
His face was in shadow.
The storm clouds threw the mountain peaks into dense shadou.
The body had been thrown down disused mineshaft.
They lowered him down to the bottom of the deep shaft.
Give the tablecloth a good shake before putting it away.
He gave himself @ mental shake and got dotwn to work.
Her hands were shaking so badly that she couldn't hold her glass.
He was almost shaking with the intensity of what he was saying.
Shewas shaking with rage.
He was crying and shak1ng all over.
He shook the blankets vigorously to get rid of the dust.
She must have shaken the baby quite violently to infict such severe injur ies.
Shake well before use.
Heshook her gently by theshoulders.
Just, merely, only, simply He merely shook his head.
He shook his head at her disbelievingly.
Our host shook each of us warmly by the hand.
She never seemed to completely shake the dumb blonde image.
The experience left her deeplyshaken.
Are you all right? You look a bit shaken up.
She was visibly shaken by the news.
The paper calls for an urgent shake-up in the system for looking after the elderly.
The headline read *Local council plons shakeup'.
Police forces foce the biggest shakeup in their 150year history.
The experience had left him rather shaky.
Her voice was low and shaky with emotion.
Financially, the arrangement wos distinctly shaky.
The water gets quite shallow towards the shore.
Follow the south shore, crossing the river whereit is shallow enough.
Tony seemed very shallow ‘and immature.
His arrest for stealing brought shame on his family.
She wept from the shame of having let everyone down.
She shut her eyes in shame.
Tomy shame, 1didn’t tell Robert about the party.
He had cried noisily and without shame at the news of Esther's death.
She blushed with shame.
She felt a flush of shame at what she'd done.
Her pregnancy was no cause for shame.
He was being held by tiwo security guards, his head bowed in shame.
The people whodid this deserve to be publicly shamed.
An outcry from customers has shamed the company into lowering its prices.
Il have a shampoo and set, please.
The children cut the paper into various simple shapes.
The desk was an ‘awkuward shape and wouldn't fit through the door.
The road forms an L shape.
The bruise was a sort of mushroom shape.
You can't change your natural body shape.
First drauw therough shape of your chasen animal.
Fold the paper to ‘make the shape of a cone.
Tables come in various ‘shapes.
Ordinary things assumed different shapes in the mist.
These garments willretain their shape even with repeated washing.
The wideangle lens distorts shapes.
Jjust make out the shapes of animals in the field.
Ghostly shapes loomed out of the fog.
The island s roughly circular in shape.
He did much to determine the shape of Europe’s political map at that time.
This revolutionary transport system could be the shape of things to come.
He's 67, ‘buthe'’sin better physical shape than Iam.
Youare in pretty good shape for your age.
Memory can be profoundiy shaped by subsequent experience.
All the ‘rooms in the house were awkwardly shaped.
You can buy spectally shaped bricks for an arch.
The wife owns an 80% share of their second.
The company’s market share slipped to under 15% last month.
You should receivea large share of the profits.
Hospitals take the lion's share of the NHS budget.
Everyone seems to want to get into television to claim their share f fame and fortune.
Wemustalldo our shareof thework.
The industry has had itsfair share of problems.
The company has issued four classes of shares.
Hong Kong share prices plunged.
The Chief Executive's share option has earned him over £2 million.
Ivegot afew shares in British Aerospace.
Personal experience of childbirth gives a dimension of knowledge that others cannot fully share.
We shared the money equally between the three of us.
Each partner is entitled to share in the profits of the business.
She wished he would let her share his pain.
How do you share out three cakes among Jfour people? between Responsibility is shared betuween ‘parents and teachers.
He shared in our enthusiasm for rowing.
She had to share a bedroom with her sister.
These ideas are widely shared in the community.
The government is still @ majority shareholder in the industrs.
The boat went down insharkinfested waters off the coast of South Africa.
Her voice sounded rather sharp.
Stick to the Jfacts,” said Romanou his voice suddenly sharp.
She was quite sharp with me when I talked during her lecture.
Raw cranberries are extremely sharp and must olways be cooked with a little sugar.
This cheese has a slightly sharp flavour.
The mirror shattered intoa thousand pieces.
The moment was abruptly shattered by the sound of Mia’s loud voice.
His run had left him feeling totally shattered.
He badly needed a shave.
He had a bath and a quick shavefirst.
Ruth draped a shawl over her shoulders.
She pulled her shawlabout her protectively.
My grandJather used to raise sheep in Wales.
The dogs herded the sheep into the pen.
There werea lot of sheep grazing ‘high up on the mountain.
If's ‘nearly the sheep’s lambing time.
She ‘had stept in her bed—the sheets were crumpled.
In She changed the sheets on all the beds.
The police had covered the body with a sheet.
He pulled a blank sheet of paper towards him and began to write.
The advertisement was a single printed sheet.
Take a clean sheel of paper andstartagain.
The furniture was covered in dust sheets.
Sheets of flame shot into the air.
The fridge had three shelves.
She soon learned how to put up her own shelves.
He's got a job stocking shelves ino supermarket.
The supermarket immediately removed the product from its shelves.
Souvenirs Jilted the shelves.
Her diaries just sat on the shelf for years (= novody looked at them for years).
She reached for the shelf next to the bed.
The walls of her study were lined with shelves.
The book deserves a place on everyone's shetves.
She had built up a protective shell of indifference around herself.
The garden was tittered with empty snail shells.
He's really come outof his shell since he met Maric.
The snail went back info its shell.
Remove the mussels from their shells.
They braved heavyshellfireto rescue the wounded.
The great elm trees gave shelter from the wind.
The nuns won't refuse you shelter.
We had to leave the shelter of the trees.
The villagers were building temporary sheiters.
In afthe ~ You'll be safer in the shelter.
The farmyard was snugly sheltered with buildingson threesides.
Plans to expand the company have had to bequietly shetved.
The ground shelves quite steeply here.
I'll have a small sherry, please.
Look for something that con act asa shield, likeo dustbin lid.
They used 400 hostages ashuman shields.
The ozone loyer forms a shield against harmpul solar rays.
He carefully shielded the flome with his cupped hand.
She raised her hand to shield her eves ‘against the sun.
Jforeign competition with He shielded her with his body.
Shakespeare ~ (away) from the shift away from direct taxation~ina shift inpublic opinion~to a sudden shift to the right in British politics ~towards a shifttowards part-time farming.
I'm doing the early shift this week.
I'd have (o work shifts.
The clinic is staffed by ten doctors who work in shifis.
They'd altered his shift pattern twice in thepast fortnight.
Julie shifted her position slightly and smiled.
She shifted uncomfortably i her chai.
She shifted her gaze away from the group of tourists.
He shifted his weight onto his leftfoot.
Her eves shifted tohisface.
The empiasis has shified markedly in recent years.
We canrot simply shift the responsibility onto someone else.
His sympathies rapidly shifted to the side of the workers.
Kick (sb infon) kicked him hard in the shins to shut him up.
The sun was shining brightly.
Sunlight shone in through the window.
She seemed (o shine with ar.
Thewatchman shone his torch at us.
Love and pride shone from her eyes.
The water was shining faintly in the moonlight.
The dark wood shone like glass.
The light shone on his face.
His dark eyes shone with excitement.
The ship is now permanently moored on the Thames in London.
Trie dockers were loading the cargo onto the ship.
The captain went down with his ship.
Some of the crew jumped ship (= left it illegally)at Gibraltar and disappeared.
Their ship lay at anchor at the mouth of the harbour.
They are now on a ship bound for New York.
There was no time to send thegoods by ship.
An armed patrol boat witlescort the shipment.
Customs officers have seizeda largeshipment of cocaine.
He wears a crisp white shirt to theoffice everyday.
He tucked his shirt into his trousers.
She gave a little shiver and laughed.
He felt a shiver of excitement.
His appearance sent a cold shiver down her spine.
Shetried tosuppressa shiver of anticipation.
Just thinking about fiying gives metheshivers.
He shivered at the thought of it.
Once the initial shock had worn off.
She felt shock that he would be capable of such an act.
Igota terrible shock when I saw him.
Jformal) Inearly died of shock when your mother appeared.
In~ She looked round in shock.
She realized with a sudden shock that she was being followed.
This news came asa great shock tome.
I'm still in a state of shock.
He gave himself a mild electric shock while changing a light bulb.
Suffering from, suffer He wasin deep shock after the accident.
He had gone intoshock and was shaking violently.
The news had shocked her deeply.
He had oldfashioned ideas and was easily shocked.
Into The news shocked her into action.
The passengers were badly shocked but unharmed.
They were shocked at how the children had been ireated.
She was visibly shocked by the conditions she witnessed in the refugee camp.
I've had my shoes resoled.
The shoes, though elegant, pinched her feet terribly.
This plant hasn't got any shoots et.
These shrubs will need more light to produce flowering shoots.
He goes out on shoots with very little equipment.
She practised for days until she could shoot straight.
He accidentally shot him self in the foot.
Four policemen were fatally shot In the Incident.
If caught, the men could be summarily shot as sples.
She was shot with asmall automatic pistol.
Any intruders will be shot on sight.
The police shot him dead.
She bought 400 cigarettes at the airport duty free shop.
Mobtle shops are invalucble to people in ruralareas.
This s your one-stop shop forallyour holiday needs.
The brothers opened a chain of electrical shops in the eighties.
She opened a flower shop in the High Street.
Same buskers had set up shop outside the station.
The shop offers a large selection of leather goods at reasonable prices.
Iwent around all the shops but T couldn't find a present for him.
There was was a breakin at that new shop last night.
She works parttime ina shop.
They stole thousands of pounds' worthof goods ina two-day shoplifting spree.
The street was thronged with shoppers.
They unpacked the shopping and put it away.
She's doing some lastminute Christmas shopping.
She won £10000 and immediately went on a shoppingspree.
Meg was pointing towards the far shore.
The path ran along thesoutherr shore of the lake.
We sailed until midnight, hugging the shore.
The route goes around the shore of Derwent Water.
The sea appears calm near the shore.
The others were now safely on shore.
Therearea lotof rockson that shore.
The hotel Is situated on the sheltered shores of the Moray Firth, (down/back) toltowards the~ The hotel's gardens stretch down to the lake shore.
He was glad 10 return to his native shores.
The decisions will be taken beyond these shores.
It was all over ina relatively short space of time.
Our team was one player short.
We're getting shortof funds.
United looked woefully shortof menace inattack.
Mikewasa bitshort of cash just then.
Industryis facing serious labour shortage.
Lives are being put at risk because of staff shortages.
Their economy continued to suffer shortoges in raw materials.
They are well aware of their own shortcomings.
The committee is willing to overlook your past shortcomings.
Their proposol seeks toremedy theseshoricomings.
Not all these shortcomings stem from inadequate resources.
Despite its obuious shortcomings, the plon was accepted by the government.
In the shortcomings in the law.
They said the accident was due to shortcomings on the port of the pilots.
Take the short cut across the Jfields.
There are no short cuts {o economic recovers.
The course has now been shortened considerably.
His driving ban has been shortened by a year: from, to The waiting time has been shortened dromaticalIy from eightweeks to just one week.
Hersecretary was taking shorthand.
Hetook the speech down in shorthand.
The term ‘machine’ is used as @ convenient shorthand for the total hardware and software system.
The interview ers have to draw up a shortlist of five or six people.
The film is on the shortlist for Best Picture.
The shot hit him in the upper chest.
She is a crack shot with rifle.
Go on— take another shot.
My first shot went wide, butmy second was right on target.
Their captain tried a long shot on goal.
The applause acted on her ltkea shotof adrenalin.
The men were ormed with sawn-off shotguns.
The cause of death was a shotgun blast at close ronge.
His frozen shoulder has stopped him playing tennis.
The bullet hit him squarely between the Shoulder blodes.
Keep the feet shoulder widthaport.
He gave me a reassuring paton the shoulder.
The route of the procession was lined with police oficers standing ‘shoulder to shoulder.
When I asked him why hed done it he Just shrugged his shoulders.
He ‘hunched his shoulders against the cold wind.
She was crouched with her head forward and her shoulders bent.
Her shoulders lifted in a vagueshrug.
His enormous shoulders heaved with sobs.
The childsat on her futher's shoulders towatch the parade go by.
He was unwilling to shoulder this responsibility alone.
She shouldered her way through the crouw.
With a shout of pain, he pulled his hand away from the hot stove.
There were shouts of laughter from the crowd.
Tm donefor”" he shouted aloud.
He found he was almost shouting.
He opened his mouth to shout, but no sound came out.
What were they shouting about? above We had to shout above the noise of the engines.
We shouted after him, but he couldn't hear us.
There's no need to shout at me! for We shouted for help.
He shouted to the lorry drivertostop.
They were surrounded by people shouting and screaming: shout at the top of your voice, shout yourself hoarse She shouted herself hoarse, cheering on the team.
Shesent him off witha little shove.
Ishoved hard untilthe door opened.
He shoved me roughly aside.
She shoved the letter in a drawer.
She finally got her own TVshoi.
I'saw her on achat show yesterday.
The dog was the real star of the show.
They are holdinga big fashion show at the Hilton tonight.
The show features the work of localartists.
There were more than 500exhibitors at the trade show.
The paintings are on show until April.
Although ske hated hirm, sheputon a show of politeness.
He shouts lot but itsall show.
He made a great show of welcoming us.
The Democrats or- ‘ganized ashow of strength, amass rally in Central Park.
The figures clearly show thot her claims arefalse.
Third quarter figures are likely to show a further fall in figures.
Lewis refused to show any emotion.
Les was happy to show ‘her how it should be done.
Let meshowyou on the map.
She showed her new oy to her friends.
I'm giving him a chanceto show what he can do.
It's such a tiny mark, it hardly shows.
The scene was set for the final showdown.
He was now strong enough t force a shoudown with them.
Holland in April ~between the title showdown between Arsenal and United ~ over The council is heading for a showdown over the new proposals.
Of course T'll support you {f it comes fo a shoudouwn.
Ill just takea quick shower.
Scatered showers during theafternoon will die out by late evening.
The grinding wheel sent out a shower of sparks.
The opposing team putupavery strong showing.
The team will have to improve on today's showing If it is to survive i the competition.
On its present showing, the party should win the election.
It was a great showing by the Brazilian team.
The young princes attended a private showing of the new Disney film.
We chose @ new cooker from the gas shotwroom.
He ‘managed to find a second-hand Ferrari in showroom condition.
He was hit in thearm by lying shrapnel.
The bomb exploded, ‘sending shrapnel whistling through the trees.
Infinto ~s Cut the orange peel into fine shreds.
Their economy is in shreds.
With her had gone every shred of hope he had for the future.
She was hanging on to the last remaining shreds of her reputation.
There is not a shred of doubt in my mind that wewillwin.
Shred the lettuce leaves finel.
She gave a little shriek of delight.
Shrieks of laughter came rom the bedroom.
On his recovery he made a pilgrimage to the shrine of StJohn.
St Cuthbert at Durham ~to She had turned theroam inio a shrine to her dead son.
Their profits shrank by 4% last year.
Their shareof the market has shrunk from 14% 0 5%.
Households have been shrinking in size but increasing in number.
He shranka little at the sight of the blood.
He shrank back against the wall.
In She shrank back in terror.
Ishrank back into the shadouws.
She shrank from his touch.
The nuclear project was cloaked in a shroud of secrecy.
Tender shrubs don't grow well here.
The bed is plonted with flowering shrubs.
With a mental shrug, he decided to tell the truth.
The boy gave a slight shrug and walked away.
She lifted her shoulders in a little shrug with a~Tdon'tknouw," she said withashrug.
Hemerely shrugged his shoulders inrepls.
The team have been able ta shrug off their recent failures and performwell.
She gave a little shudder when she tauched his clammy hand.
He repressed a shudder of disgust.
He remembered that auful moment with ashudder.
She shuddered involuntarily as he approached her.
The sight of the dead body ‘made ther shudder.
She shuddered at the memars of school exarms.
His whole body shuddered with fury.
Simon shuffted awkuwardly towards them.
The queue shufed slowl forward.
She shuffled nervously on the bench.
The boys shuffled around uncomfortably.
The window blew shut.
The elevator doorslid shut.
His jaw was clenched shut.
Il leave the window shut for now.
He slammed the case shut.
She snapped shut a file on her desk.
The gates are always kept shut.
Afraid to ask seemingly stupid questions, I kept my mouth shut.
The door was firmy shut.
The bars all look shut tome.
He left the shutter open.
He threio open the shutters (o cool the room.
All the shutters in the street were doun.
She could be seen waiting for him be- ‘hind halfclosed shutters.
Daylight was filtering through the shutters when he woke up.
As the princess approached youcould hear hundreds of camera shutters clicking.
The supermarket aperates a complimentary shuttle service.
We'll fly up on the shuttle.
Adrar and Oran ~from, ~to I took the Eastern Airlines shuttle from Washington to New York.
Her horse shied violently at a gorse bush.
As a teenager I was painfully shy.
She went all shy and hid behind her mother.
He isa naturally shy, retiring man.
Iwas a bit shy of them at first.
You don't ‘haveo be shy with me, you know.
He was suddenly overcome with shyness.
She had to work very hard to ‘overcome her paralysing shyness.
She completely forgot ‘her shyness in her fascination with what he was saying.
The younger children were bodly treated by older siblings.
Church’s mission to preach the gospel and heal the sick PHRASES the sick and wounded The sick and wounded were evacuated from the wor zone.
She was afraid she would getsickif shestoyed in that place any longer.
Very The house has accommodation for up to 60chronicalIy sick or disabled residents.
If you eat all that chacolate it 1l make you ick.
He leaned ‘sidewcys and was violently sick.
Every time I think about it feel physically sick.
With Laura felt almost sick with embarrassment.
I'm getting sick of all these delays.
Her attitude makes me sick.
He was getting heartily sick of all the folse_sympathy.
She was getting a bit sick of his moaning.
I'm getting sick of you teaving things in amess.
It was pretty sick humour, I thought.
Whoever started the fire must besick in the head.
The Personnel Department keeps @ record of employees bsent through sickness.
Thesickness rose inside him.
Several workers complained of feelings of sickness and headaches.
The reverse side of the coin has a pictureof aflower.
At the other side of the room, & group of people were clustered around the fire.
The lefihand side of the poge.
Some people were standing ot one side of the room.
The cot sat with ifs tail twitching from side to side.
She put her head to one side s she talked.
He s paralysed down his left sideasa result of polio.
I've gotan atful poin inmyside.
I'm not comfort- ‘ableon my back.
The scandal has shown us the ugly side of poliics.
She likes men who do not hide their feminine side.
He's usually very kind and gentle, but he has his less positive side too.
There are several sides (o most problems.
Even when things 20 badly, try to look on the bright side.
On thecredit side, we played well, although welost the ‘match.
Fortunately, Juliesaw the junny side when I spitled coffee on her.
As the home side, they were expected to play an attacking game.
Sussex arelikely tofielda strongside.
The treatment has some unfortunate side effects.
The patient suffered severe side effects from thedrug ~of The drug hos the beneficial side effect of lowering the patients biood pressure.
The medication can haveadverse side effects on the patient.
He decided to turn his hobby into a lucrative sideline.
Cider making was a sideline for many farmers.
The English forces laid siege to the cityof Tournai.
Thisfortress could withstand asiege for years f necessary.
The royal forces marched south to lift the siege of Donnington Castle.
Thesiege lasted two years.
Edinburgh Castle in 1573 during althe ~, under ~ At the very end of the war, Prague again came under siege.
The seven-hour armed siege at the school ended peacefully.
The terrorists were shot dead during thesiegeof the embassy.
The police placed the city centre under a virtual state of siege.
Lotsof people were taking a short siesta in the shade.
In althe~ Wash therice in a sieve under cold run- ‘ning water: through afthe ~ Stratn the cream through a finesieve into the egg mixture.
Sit the flour finely before adding it to the ‘mixture.
They spent days cargfully sifting through theevidence.
There was an audible sigh of relief when the news came through that nobody washurt.
Shelet out her breath on a sigh.
She sighed heavily and sat down.
She looked at her son and sighed happily.
He sighed wearily as he looked at the ple of work.
He sighed in exasperation.
We ighed with relfef when the noise stopped.
She hasvery little sight in her left eve.
He's lost the sight of ane eye.
The sur- ‘geons battled to save her sight.
She suddenly cought sightof the look on her mother's face.
Weuwill soon get our Jirstsight of the Statueof Liberty.
Her knees went weak at the sight of him.
He looked at first sight like an English tourist.
The mere sight of her sitting there made his heart beat faster shoot (sb) on sight (= to shoat sb immediately you see them) Soldiers have been ordered ta shoot loaters on sight.
We've shared an office for 100 long andwe're ik of the sight of each ather.
Inta Then the towers of the costle came into sight.
She watched until the car disappeared from sigh.
The end is in sight (= will happen soon).
The cricket ground was situated within sight of bothvillage pubs.
At last we came in sight of a few houses.
He tried to break into a car in full sight of a policeman.
They waited until the enemy was in plain sight.
She was now standing justout of his lineof sight.
Hereallydid looka sorry sight, his hair tangledand his clothing covered in feathers.
The slghts and sounds of the ity distracted her from her work.
Let's get out of the hotel and see the sights.
Rossi has the defending champion in her sights in tomorrow's race.
Tower, raise After failing 10 get into university, he lowered hissightsand gota job ina shop.
She has her sights set on becoming a writer.
He says he wants to win the trophy, but Ithink he's setting his sights toohigh.
We now have three confirmed sightings of an enemy plane.
Wedid some sightseeing inthemorning.
It's too hot to go sightseeing.
All the outward signs of growth in the marketare there.
Strong likes or dislikes of various foods ‘areanother of the early signs of pregnancy.
It was a good sign.
Are appliances you buy safe? We point out the danger sigrns.
By now the fish was showing signs of distress.
We detected signs that they were less than enthusiastic about the holiday.
Look carefully for signsaf damp.
The first signs of spring appeared.
Indicate sth, point to sth Al the signs pointed 1ot being more than just a coincidence.
He disappeared at the first sign of trouble.
The villages regarded the earthquake s asignfrom God.
There was no sign of Iife in the ‘house (= there seemed to be nobody there).
It's a real sign of the times: 30 smatt businesses fuce financial ruin this month.
He spoke up without the slightest sign of nervousness.
Some of the marchers were holding up signs and placards.
Someone had putupa'For Sale'sign.
Tow Just follow thesigns for Bridgend.
The sign read ‘No Fishing'.
This sign indicates that cycling s allowed.
The sign pointed down a smail lane.
She gave me a thumbsup sign.
They had to communicate through signsand grunts.
The priest made thesign of the cross over the dead body.
The wizard drew some strange signs in the air with his wand.
Chinese sign for father' instead of ‘uncle’.
One copy of this letter should be duly signed and returned tous.
The postman asked me tosign or the parcel.
Laughing when you should be crying sends out the wrong signals to people.
He had arranged a signalfor the band 1o begin.
Interpret (sth 85),read, see sthas ‘The remark was seen as a signal that their government was ready to return (o the peace talks.
Intervlewers quickly learn to pick up non-verbal signals.
The insect’s bright colours act as warning signals toits predators.
Al a prearranged signal, everyone started cheering.
She made a signal for the car 10 stop.
Wait for the signal from the leader of your group.
The traffic signals wereon red.
The nerves carry these signals to the brain.
This equipment can detect very low frequency signals.
He raised his hand and signalled for the waiter:to She signalled to the bus driver to stop.
These changes clearly signal the end of the welfare state as we know it.
The document must be signed by an authorizedsignatory of the company.
Signatories agreed to support the nuclear test ban.
We both refused to put our signatures to the agreement.
Your signature must be witnessed by two people.
They collected over 1000 signatures for the petition.
The will bears her signature.
The scientists are coutious about the wider significance of their findings.
They fuiled to appreciate the true significance of these discoveries.
The ceremony has great symbolic significance.
Suddenly his son’s relationship with the girl tock on a new significance.
Let us not attach too much significance 1o these meetings.
The significance of this lies in the fact that he had previously denied all knowledgeof the fund.
The move was regarded as significant in Japan.
These differences are not statistically significant.
This development proved highly significant Jfor the whole town.
There was a moment's silence before she replicd.
We sat in complete silence, save for the ticking of the clock.
An awkward silence ollowed.
She fell into long, brooding silences.
They walked in companionablesilence.
Lewis finally Broke the long silence between them.
Into, subside into, trail into (all only used about people) He lapsed into a sullen silence.
The boys were stunned into silence by this news.
Her question was met with an uneasy silence.
They ate their breakfast insilence.
The government's only response has beena deafening silence.
Keep, maintain He has so far kept a dignified silence on the subject.
There seems to have been a deliberate silencefrom the newspapers.
There is a conspiracy of silence about what is happening (= nobody is willing to talk about it).
She has broken her vou of silenceon the issue.
Criticism has now been effectively silenced.
Her scream was abruptly stlenced.
Even these improvements to the service fuiled to silence a grumbling chorus of complains.
She silenced him witha glare.
The crowd Jell silent as she began to speak.
The room greuw silent as the men entered.
The street lay silent and deserted.
She sat silen throughout the meal.
The ‘new bus is virtually silent.
Thestreet was strangely silent.
Len remained obstinately silent.
For long periods they were uncomfortably silent because they couid think of nothing tosay.
They had kept remarkably silent about their intentions.
The report was silent on that subject.
He drew the city in silhouette.
In~ (= wearing clothes made of silk) ladies in silks and satins of~ an evening dress of pure whitesilk silly adj.
The water contains finesilt.
During the annual floods the river deposits ts silt on the lelds.
Silver is extracted from silverore.
Ske got a silver in the long jump.
He took the silver this year.
The three portraits are remarkably similar.
In The two houses are similar in size.
Vo Snake meat tastes similar tochicken.
Here the similarity with Western politics ends.
In thestriking similarity in their be- ‘haviour ~to the chimpanzee's similarity to humans ~with The panel shows marked similarities with mosaics found.
She was stll quietly 'simmering from her row with Nathan.
The golden rule when creating your design : keep it simple.
Ifound the work fuirly simple.
Dor’t worry—it's all quite simple.
Dor't be fooled by the music’s apparent simplicity.
For simplicity I shallcontinue to usethe generalword river’.
He made a number of simplifications in the taxation system.
The whole process has now ‘been greatly simplified.
He presents the theory in a grossly simplified form.
This is a highly simplified ‘view of the economy: simplistic adj.
The graphics are somewhat simplistic.
The device simulates conditions in space quiteclosely.
Models are used tosimulate the workings of a real-life sstem.
The piloe's skills are tested through simulation.
The besetting sin of 18th-century urban Britain was drunkenness.
They had confessed their sins and done their penance.
Sin against olhers is seen as a sin against God.
Her protests seemed sincere enough.
If's wonderful, he said with apparent sincerity.
There ‘seemsnoreason todoubt the sincerity of his beliefs.
There was no mistaking his sincerity.
She wasn't yet convinced of his sincerity.
Birds sang cheerfully in the trees.
She could sing a bit and agreed to take part in the ‘shotw.
Weplayed and sang together.
Singerstook turnsto perform songs they had written.
The vicor led the hymn singing.
Her brother accompanied her singing on the piano.
He has a lovely singing voice.
She was in her room playing her singles.
The band later released this album track asa single.
It was voted the best single by a solo artist.
She decided nottoplayin the singles.
She was at the sink, washing up the din ner things.
Don't pour tea leaves down the kitchen sink—it'll get blocked.
In the ~ Put the dishes in the sink.
Fergus was in waistdeep and sink: ingfast.
Shesank down intothe saft soil.
We watched the boat sink be- ‘neath the waves.
Our feet sank deep into the soft sand aswewalked.
She sank up to his knees in the mud.
The box sani like a stone.
It seemed as though the ship had sunk without trace.
He sank lower into his choir: onto She sank ‘gracefully downonto a cushion at his feet.
She sank i the ground, exhausted.
The old man had sunk to his knes.
Hedrank thewhisky in sips.
She sat in the warm sun, idly sipping champagne.
She paused t05ip her tea.
He sipped at his beer thoughtfully.
She sipped from her glass of water.
The cars had stopped at the sound of the approaching siren.
Teships all ‘sounded their sirens.
Have you got any brothers and sisters? like sisters The girls are so close, they're like sisters.
He would sit quietly and watch what was happening.
Wesat in ilence for a few moments.
She was sitting in her favourite armchair with her legs crossed.
He sat bolt upright, hands folded in front of him.
She sat demurely on the edge of her chair.
He motioned the young officer to it down.
He was sitting at his desk.
She went and sat beside him.
He sat back in his chair and started to read.
His views did not sit comfortably with the management line.
The local council has recently acquired the site.
The site is being cleared Jfor development.
The site s presently occupied by offices.
The school stands on the site of an ancient settlement.
The factory will be built at a site to the north of thecity.
Hard hats must be worn on site.
Hewas injured on @ building site.
Many of these arcient ‘burtal sites were destroyed in the last century.
The president is tovisit thecrashsite later today.
At this site you'll fird all the latest news and gossip.
Check out the links in our home site.
Jopan ~tor the most popular sites for children ~on P'msearching for sites onaromatherapy.
The fence is strategically sited 1o prevent anyone getting onto the beach.
The hotel is beautifully sited by a lake ina steep valley.
The hotel is delightfully situated close to the waterfront.
Zakro was well situated for trade with Greece.
She Jfound it difficult (o take in the situation.
The peacekeepers are trained to defuse potentially explosive situations.
Interfering now would only exacerbate the situation.
We will deal with that if the situation arises.
Thesituation is deteriorating rapids.
Given the gravity of the situation, I'm not surprised she's panicking away out of the situation Iwas in troubleand Icould seenowayout of thesituation.
The kitchen is (of) a foir size.
Des: pite its diminutive size, the car is quite comfortable.
The sheer size of these dinosaurs was their main defence.
The ladder is a handy size for using in the house.
The standard size for the tiles s 300mm square.
The ring is shown actual size in the illustration.
The company is reducing the size of its workforce.
Houses increase in size further away from thecity centre.
In, vary In These insects range in size from 2 to scm.
Quess (at) Thad to guess at thesizeof the batteries.
The size of her audience varied.
From the size of the queties outside thecinema, it was avery good film.
Their house is tuice the size of ours.
Thereare people of all shapes and size n the judo class.
The company is now going fo make these products in larger sizes.
The 51itre sizecomes inametal tin.
New radiators come in metric sizes.
In, come In The bricks comein four sizes.
The jacket is several sizes too large for him.
Size 2, 10, ete.
We used to go skating on the lake incotdwinters.
The family house appears in several of her sketches.
John Constable ~for to make a sketch for an oil painting ~of He did some rough skeiches of the costumes.
The talk began with a thumbnail sketch of the political situation at that time.
Hegave us character sketches of all hiseccentric relations.
The children goto school on skis.
The police examined the skid marks to see howfast thecar had been travelfing.
Special pageat SPORT skilful adj.
He is a negotiator of considerable skill, © With consummate skill, she steered the conversation away from any embarrassing subjects.
She has good organizational skills.
No special skills or knowledge are required for the job.
It is important to develop good study skills.
She had to developa whole newset of skills when she changed job.
The ‘manager must harness the skills of the workers tofirm abJectives.
She attends regular training weekends to sharpen her skills.
The country is still fucing a skills shortage.
She performed the task with great skill.
The country is facing a skills shortage.
Interviewing is a very skilled job.
She wasn't very skilled with the camera et.
This report has barely ‘skimmed the surface of the subject.
The sheets felt nice next to his bare skin.
Kitten by the loose skin on its neck.
Her skin was glistening with sweat after her run.
Theyclaim that this cream makes the skin age more slowls.
Just thinking about spiders makes my skin crauwl.
Avoid skin contact with the glue.
The sheets felt rough against her sunburnt skin.
Beneath his skin, the muscles were tight with tension.
The drugs reduce the inflemmation in the skin.
Showed through his skin.
The dog last more and more weight, and was soon little mare than skin and bone.
At school Iwas fairly skinny and undersized.
He skipped lightly up the stairs.
He was killed in a border skirmish.
They were involved ina skirmish with rival fans.
She sat down, smoothing the skirtof her dress.
Her full skirt billowed ‘around her as she danced.
Her skirt rode up her thighs when she at down.
The soldiers’ hair was cropped close to the skull.
We slept under the open sky.
The fireworks Uil up the sky.
The sky was streaked with gold.
Black clouds spread across the sky.
The eagle was black against the early morning sky.
There was a kite high up in the sky.
Swallows darted about in the sky overhead.
Hong Kong, London, etc.
The skyline is dominated by a nuclear power station.
Clouds of smokefloated over theskyline.
Beirut skyline below the~ The sun slipped below the skyline.
There areseveral gothic spiresanthecity skyline.
On all sides, skyscrapers rase like jagged teeth.
They were unloading great stabs of rock.
Let e reins &0 slack.
Leave the thread slightly slack to allowfor movement.
Some of the ropes were com pletely slack.
The antiques business remained slack.
This season has been pretty slack for local hotels so far.
She knew she had been very slack in her church attendance recently.
His grip slackened a tittle and she pulled away.
Slacken off the ropes.
Growth in the economy was beginning toslacken off.
She ran out of the room and slammed the door as hard as she could.
He said goodbye and slammed the phone down.
Kath's heart slammed against her ribs.
The cor skidded and slammed into tree.
He slammed the lid shut.
He was found guilty of slander against his employers.
Many teachers saw the statement as a gross slander on their profession.
Ruby Murray isrhymingslang for ‘curry’.
Her chin took an a stubborn slant.
They held their spears at a slant.
Cutthe flower stems on the siant.
He puts his own particular slant on everything.
That's a different slant on the causes of the First World War: ~to Thestory gives anewslant tohis character.
He gave his brother a hearty slap on the back tocongratulate him.
He hit the water with a resounding slap.
The closure of theschoolisa slap in the face to the local community.
She slopped his ‘hand away.
The officer slapped him hard across the Jface.
She slapped the boy on the leg.
He slashed througl: the rope.
He slashed wildlyat me with a knife.
The animals are all humanely slaughtered.
Thousands of birds were slaughtered for their feathers.
Hundreds of innocent civilians werecruellyslaughtered.
Thelr stated aim was to free women Jfromdomestic slavery.
Chiosis said to have introduced slavery into Greece.
Close your eyes and get some sleep now.
Tom was in the Jfrontroom sleeping thesleep af thedead.
Isnatched a few ‘hours' sleep in the afternoon.
They seem to survive on only a few hours' sleep a night.
The quiet music soon sent her to sleep.
He drifted inandout of sleep all night.
Saturday to catch up on my sleep.
Sleep cam to her in snatches.
Sicep inally overtook me.
Sorry but I need my beauty sleep.
InT was in a deep sleep when the phone rang.
He wokefroma fitfulsleepwitha headache.
You/ Il feel better after a good night's sleep.
The children were all sleeping soundly.
When the murderer is caught we can all sleep easier in our beds at night.
He was exhausted and slept deeply.
She aluays slept very lightly so I had to be cargful not towake her.
Shefeltas if she ‘had hardlyslept.
Ionly slept for four hours that night.
She slept right through the siorm.
Everyone knows ‘she sleeps with the boss.
Let them sleep late on Saturdaymorning if they want (0.
Thealcohol was making hirm sleepy.
Shewas beginning to geta bt sleepy.
She rolled up her sleeves and got down to work.
It was sunny, and everyone was in short sleeves.
There's tomato sauceon your sleeve.
In (your) shirtsleeves (= not wearing a Jacket) slender adj.
Thase trousers make you: look very slender.
His musical achievements have ‘been decidedlyslender.
They spend a fair slice of the budget on research and development.
Shecuta thin slice of lemon.
Thesausage s alsosoldpre-packed in stices.
The agency takes a large slice of the profits.
He cut the meat into thick slices.
Slice the bread thinly.
Sliceup the mushrooms and fry them.
Into The axe sliced into her shoulder.
The knife sliced through hisear.
Slice the onion in two.
He gave a Jfascinating slide show on climbing in the Himalayas.
There were lots on children on theslide.
Tears slid slowly down his pale cheek.
Iy, quietly, silently The moon slid sitently behind a cloud.
We slid helplessly down the slope.
In, out, sideways The drawers lide inand out easily.
The eyes slid away from his own in embarrassment.
The melting snow began to slidefrom the sloping roofs.
She took the note and slid it quickly into her pocket.
He slid off the couch and walked over to me.
The [ift doors slid open.
She looked very slight, almost fragile.
She works very hard to stay slim.
The seaweed felt cold and slimy.
Thewalls were all slimyand green.
The steps were slimy with moss.
She made a couple of unfortunate slips during the talk.
He got over ity reJection slips before his novel was published.
He wrote the address on a slip of paper.
Special page at CLOTHES slippery adj.
The concrete gets slippery when ir's wet.
The oil made the ‘ground slippery and treacherous to walk or.
Watch out—the floor’s @ bitslippery.
He slithered helplessly down the slope.
On the~ They fought the election on the slogan “The time has come’.
There was snow on the higher slopes of the mountain.
Thevineyards on the south facing slopes get more sunshine.
Some tourists were having a skiing lesson on the nursery slope.
The unemployment-income curve on the graph has a negative siope.
We clambered up the steep, rocky slope.
The football pitch has a slope of about one metre.
The lower slopes rise quite gently.
We camped on an open mountain slope.
There were more skiers further up the slope.
The ground slopes away steeply at the backof the house.
The field slopes down to a small river.
The panels slot together to makea compost bin.
He slotted the magazines neatly into the rack.
All the pieces of the puzzle now slotted into place.
Sales have siowed down quite markedly.
The roadblocks hardly slowed them aall.
She very deliberately slowed her steps.
Rachel tried (o slow her breathing.
Economic growth is expected toslow.
The two of them had slowed almost 0 astop.
Filming was painfully slow.
Civil court proceedings are notoriously slow.
He was noticeably slow to respond.
Genetic evolution is necessarily slow.
They are extremely slow at reaching decisions.
The child siumbered peaceJullyinher arms.
The industry is sinking into slump.
In Estate agents were badly it by the slump in property prices.
Oil prices have slumped quite badly in recent months.
Profits slumped by 70 per cent.
Shares in the company slumped from £2.
He slumped against the wall.
She stumped back in her seat.
He slumped down into a chair: over She slumped dejectedly over the wheel.
He was found slumped ina poolof blood by security guards.
There was dirty brown slush all over the roads and pavements.
The snow had turned toslush.
He longed fo land ‘her agoodsmack in the face.
She brought her hand dowr on the water witha smack.
Shesmacked the boy on his leg.
Today's announcement ‘smacks strongly of a government cover-up.
The kite grew smaller ‘and smaller and finally disappeared altogether.
My coat was rather small for Bob.
In 1742 he suffered a futal attack of smallpox.
With a~ The plate hit the floor with @ smash.
He heard the smash of breaking glass.
In a/the ~ Four people were serlously injured in a head-on smash on the A45.
He can hit a powerful overhead smash.
His fingers lefta smear of sweat on the wall.
The article cast a smear on the Minister for Health.
She smeared the cream liberally on her Sace.
The child had smeared jam all over her face.
Their faces were heavily smeared with mud.
There wasan overpowering smell of burning tyres.
An acrid smell filled thealr.
Cooking smells drifted up fromthe kitchen.
The air was filled with a pervasive smell of chemicals.
The cottage had a musty smell after being shut up over the winter.
The skunk gives aff an unpleasant smell when attacked.
As she walked into the house she detected the smellof gas.
Then the pungent smell hit us— rotting fish and seaweed.
The faint smell of her perfume hung in the air.
His clothes smelled strongly of fish.
He smelled fuintly of sweat.
It smells like ratten meat! of The kitchen ‘smelled sweetly of herbs and ruit.
She gave a wry smile.
She suppressed a mirthless smile.
She had a happy smile on her face.
He flashed her a disarming smile.
She smiled a smile of dry amusement.
She managed a weak smile.
She returned his smile.
They had to hide their smiles.
Her father forced a smile.
Her antics brought a smile to my face.
Hisface creased into a smile.
Her smile grew radiant.
Oh, hello,” he said, witha smile.
Tweloe hours later she was all smiles again.
His face was wreathed in smiles.
Sheput doun her tools and smiled broadly.
He looked at the mess and smiled weaKly.
Lawrence nodded, smiling happily.
The doctor smiled reassuringly.
Molly smiled rather wryly and said nothing.
He smiled at her, and shesmiled back.
The memary still made her smile.
He turned and smiled at me.
She smiled with pleasure.
Khave She had a selfsatisfied smirk on her face.
She gave a knowing smirk.
Ile made no attempt to conceal his smirk.
Comfortable? he asked with a smirk.
We sat drinking in ¢ haze of cigarette smoke.
The witch disappeared ina puff of smoke.
The lorry ‘ahead was belching out black smoke.
The barn wentup insmoke (= was destroyed by afire).
She sat there wreathed in cigarette smoke.
Blue smoke curled upwards from her cigerette.
When the smoke cleared we saw the extent of the damage.
He hasaluways smoked heavily.
The ham is cured, then lightly Smoked.
I'm trying to give up smoking.
The doctor ‘aduised me to cut down on smoking and alcohol.
The company has a strict no smoking policy.
She smoothed his hair gently.
Usean iron to smooth out any creases.
The project got ojf to a remarkably smooth start.
The process of negotiation was not entirely smooth.
Now don't get smug just becauseyou've won a coupleof games.
Britain out of Friends managed to smuggle him secretly outof thecountrs.
We stopped at a service station for a quick snack.
Most affice staff prefer a snack lunch to a sit-down meal.
There isa snag to the job: you have to work at weekends, ~with Isuddentysaw the major snag with the whole idea.
Traffic had siowed to @ snail's pace.
She was bitten bya snake while walking through long grass.
The snake lifted up its head before striking its prey.
The snake wound its way through the undergrowth.
The branch suddenly snopped.
In half/two She picked up the pencil and snapped it in two.
She snapped the lid ‘shut.
The plastic pieces snap together tomake a replica of adinosaur.
How should 1 know?' Zen snapped back.
He lost his temper and snapped irritably at the children.
My patience finally snapped.
Shelearnt to sleep in brief snatches.
She leapt to her fee, ‘snaiching up her bog.
He snatched at her arm as she watked past.
Shealmost snaiched the letter from my hond.
The prime minister resisted a sneer at his opponent's misforture.
Someone sneezed loudly at the back of the holl.
The smoke reached her and mede her sneeze.
I'm sorry’ he said between sniffs.
The dog had a good sniff t the bushes around the gorden.
She wiped her eyes and sniffed loudly.
The woman sniffed back her tears.
Thedog sniffed at his shoes.
He passed on ony interesting smippets of information he could glean from his colleagues.
The article gave a few snippets from her forthcoming memoirs.
His dismissive attitude towards the rich is just inverted snobbery.
We played a couple of frames of Snooker in the evening.
She was asleep in a chair and snoring gently.
He began to snore contentedly.
He gave a snort of contempt.
Sam with asnortof derision.
He snorted indignantly and watked away.
In He snorted in disgust.
The plants were covered in fine snow.
The crisp snow crunched as we walked through it.
The frozen snow was treacherous to wolkon.
Three inches of snow fell had fallen.
She cleared the snow from the path.
Snow covered everything from horizon {0 horizon.
Snow had piled upogoinst the walls of thecottage.
It was too worm Jorthesnow tosettle.
They travelled across the snow in a sleigh.
Infinto ~ The children are playing in the snow.
We struggled through the deep snow back to the chalet.
The steps were buried under the snow.
It had been snowing heavily all night.
It started snowing just s we were setting out.
We had a light snowfall last night.
He ook the opportunity to deliver usanother snub.
His cancellation of the concert was seenas adeliberate snub to theorganizers.
He was not invited to the party, and felt snubbed.
She slipped her arm through his and snuggledclose.
Isnuggled down inmy sleeping bag.
Claudia snuggled against him.
She snuggled into him and.
Place the jar in warm water to soak the label off.
In Soak the clothes in cold water: Into Water dripped off the table and soaked into the carpet.
The rain had soaked through every layer of his clothing.
He soaked the cloth with petrol.
There was a sudden Shower and we got soaked to the skin.
Profits have soared dramatically in recent months.
Borrowing is set to soar to an astonishing £60 billion.
The fuel shortage sent prices soaring.
He was 00 racked by sobs to reply.
Choking back a sob, she ran to her father's chair.
Deep racking sobs shook his whole body.
He continued his story through stifled sobs.
Why didr't you tell me?” she soid with asob.
He was pleading, almast sobbing, first silently and then aloud.
He began to sob uncontrollably.
Shewas sobbing with pain and fear PHRASES sob your heart out sober adj.
Only the thought of her kept him sober.
By this time he felt more or less sober again.
At that point she was still sober enough toask sensible questions.
They believed that these problems would disappear under socialism.
The socialists cameto powerin 1951.
If you are unemployed you can claim social security.
Al people in work pay social security contributions.
He's out of work and on social securits.
Our thrawatwoy saciety must be encouraged to recycle.
Yeors of high unemployment ‘have left soclety deeply divided.
Such language would not be used in pollte society.
Into Prisoners often have problems fitting into society on their release.
The clinic deals with a wide cross section of society the fabric of saciety The civil war tore apart the fabric of society.
Officers were drawn largely from the top echelons of saciety.
Child cruelty exists at all levels of society.
She devated herself to helping the outcasts of society.
Oneof the pillars of society must be that everyone has access to the legol system.
He considered himself to be a pillar of society.
He felt isolated from the rest of saciety.
The research examines minorities and their relation to soclety as a whole.
Health standards have risen in socletyatlarge.
She belongs to the historical society.
In althe ~ She was active in the Society for Women’s Suffroge.
He wore odd socks, one red and one yellouw.
The battery charger plugs intoany mains socket.
Her eyes sank deep into their sockets.
Inits~ Hiseyes bulged madly in their sockets.
She sank into the deep safa.
He siumped back on the sofa in tears.
He got up from the sofa to felch some drinks.
She was curled upon the sofa.
Her skin had stayed soft and supple.
Incredibly, really, very The fabric has a beautifully soft texture.
These tomatoes have gone all soft.
The chancellor may try to soften the blow somewhat witha cut in interestrates.
He was arrested for selling pirated software.
My PC isn't powerful enough 10 run that softiware.
The clayey soils of the region are difficutttowork.
Theflotwers do well in sandy soll.
She first set foot on French soilatasmall Channel port.
The news brought no solace to the grieving relations.
Unable to travel, he found some solace in reading ‘about other people’s Journeys abroad.
They sought solace in religion from the harshness of their everyday lives.
The minister paid tribute to the brave soldiers who had lost their lives.
He was deeply affected by the death of one of his fellow soldiers.
The number of soldiers enlisting has follen dromatically.
At least 19 people were killed when soldiers opened fire on a peaceful demonstration.
I've got a ole in thesolef my shoe.
The sand was so hot Igot blsters on the soles of my fee.
Headdressed them all in very solemn tones.
Her mood was rather solemn.
The monument was unveiled with great solemnity.
Ske had actively solicited funds for her election campaign.
Local companies were solicited for money.
She solicited support from other teachers.
There will be no court duty solicitor today.
She i still a ‘practising solicitor at the ageof sixty-tuwo.
If you put it in the freezer, it will go solid.
The ice felt solid enough.
Sup- ‘portfor the plan remained rock solid.
There is pretty solid evidence to show that the disease is caused by ‘poor hygiene.
In~with Various other groups of workers wenton strike in solidarity with the train drivers.
The conflict fostered solidarity among Araboil states.
Orwell expressed his solidarity with the miners in the book.
Catering staf staged asit-down protest as a gesture of solidarity with the striking nurses.
The strike fostered @ senseof solldarity among the workers.
In the ~of She enjoyed few moments of peace in the solitude of the garden.
It is a highly soluble gas.
Instant, quick, speedy The UN representative stressed the urgency of an early solution.
They were seeking on ultimate solution tothe city's traffic problem.
Themystery has not yet been completeIysolued.
Being with peers and friends does not necessarily solve this feeling of loneliness.
This question has never been satisfuctorily solved.
We were given clues 1o help us solve the puzzle.
We hope the difficulty can be solved by getting the two sides together to discuss the issues.
The problem cannot be solved with spending cuts alone.
Everyone looked very sombre.
His eyes grew sombre.
The mood in Parliament remained sombre.
She was in a ‘somewhat sombre mood.
The funeral cortége passed, to suitably sombre music.
The queen bore him four fine sos.
They welcomed me like a longlostson.
They've got three young sons.
Living alone and trying to bring up a young son is noeasy task.
After a few drinks, they were all singing bawdy songs at the top of their voices.
They performed another tuwo songs as encores.
Important historical events were commemorated in song.
Into, burst into e strummed @ coupleof chordson the guitar and they ot burstinto sons.
In~ He heard voices raised in song.
Her touch felt wonderfully soothing.
She was a highly sophisticated and elegant woman.
The decor has a cool sophistication.
Despite her scruffy clothes, there was an air of sophistication about her: a degree/lavel of sophistication Computers raised the level of sophistication of these maps.
Jelt people were contemptuous of his lack of sophistication.
Sheadopted an upper-classaccent to give herself a veneer of sophistication.
She has sung soprano inmany major operas.
She has a natural, clear soprano voice.
Shesingsin on exceptionally pure soprano.
The border dispute was arunning sore in relations between the countries.
She wonted 1o share his sorrow.
The wor brought sorrow to millions.
To his great sorrow he could not remember his mother with~ They accepted the decision with sorrow.
Claudia felt a deep pang of sorrow for her sister.
He looked at Katherine, hiseyes fullof sorrow.
Tearsof relief were mixed with tears of sorrow: a time of sorrow Thisis a time of great sorrouw for all the family.
I'm really sorry Jane can’t come with us.
She was almost sorry tostopwork.
I'msorry about your mather.
Sheis Obviously deeply sorry for what she has done.
Hewasfriendlyin afunny sort of way.
The shop sellsall sorts of books.
Isorted theclothesout into two piles.
We sorted the washing into piles of different garments.
Someonewill have to sart this problem out.
Leave them to sort it out amang themselves.
If he con’t get his talk sorted, we'll have toask someoneelse.
Missionaries saw it as their task to save souls.
The plea touched him to his very soul.
In the process of being made into a film, the story seemed to have lost its soul.
He bared ‘his soul to her.
Lsearched my soul for any malice thot could have provoked his words, but found none.
In your~ Deep in her soul she knew she had to return to her country.
She gave herself to him body endsoul.
He gave himself heart and soul to the couse.
She sang the song with possion and soul.
There was no other living soulto beseen.
Intorment The dog was howling likea soulin torment.
By midnight, there wasn'tasoutinsight.
The dog gave a low growl.
He let out a blood-curdling scream.
We heardthe peal of church bells.
The vasefell to the ground with a great crash.
We need a big powerful sound from: the trumpets in the finat passage.
He producesa good clean sound on his flute.
She tried to describe what made a good guitar sound.
Hedidn't utter a single sound throughout the meeting.
As a politician heis amaster of the 30second sound bite.
He turned around at the sound of footsteps behind him.
The door opened without a sound.
There was ‘astrangesound from downstairs.
We arrived home safeand sound.
She had a perfectly sound reason for acting as she did.
That seems like fuirly sound advice.
Iy Itwasafinancially sound investment.
We had a cold cucumber soup as a starter.
He ladled out three bowls of soup.
The saucetasted very sour.
The milk smelled sour.
Their friendship has turned a little sour.
The village obtains all its energy from renewable sources.
The census constitutes the principal source of official statistics.
These crustaceans provide a valuable food source for some fish.
Wetried to locate the suurceof the sound.
Under the PAYE system, employees' income is taxedatsource = by the emploer).
Researchers try to quote primary sources wherever possibie.
Government sources indicated that @ compromise might be reached.
One source said: *Our blood is up.
We areangry at the way we have been treated.
According to informed sources, a takeover bid is planned for next month.
Sources close to the playerclaim he won't be entering this year's championship.
Demonstrators demanded full sovereignty for the self proclaimed republic.
China exercises sovereignty over Hong Kong.
Soverelgnty resides with the people.
Calais and the wholeof Aquitaine.
Tuwo countries havea claim to sovereignty over the islands.
Protesters called on the government to adapt a declaration of sovereigniy.
Parliamentithe people This coristitutes and attack on the sovereignty of Parliament.
Sow early for an early crop.
Souw the seeds quite thinly.
She lefta large space emptyat the bottom of the page.
He liked the wide open spaces of the Australian countryside.
The new flat has ample living space.
Avoid using the cleaner in a confined space.
This chisel is useful for getting into awkward spaces.
The exhibition takes up mostof the available space in the gallery.
Fill in the blank spaces in the table.
The ‘page layout included plenty of white space.
She moved out of the house because she wanted her own personal space.
The inner residentialareas don’thave many green spaces.
The plane strayed into French air space.
The magazineis struggling to fill all its advertising space.
The potted plants take up too much space.
They moved the sofa to make space for the plano.
I'm running short of disk space.
The writer lacked the timeand space to develop his idea fulls.
Therecording includes a fivesecond space between tracks.
The extension of the deadline gives us a breathing space.
Thejob holder will beonprobation for the space of six months.
He ell asleep in the space of a few minutes.
She returned fo top-class tennisafter a space of two years.
They have achieved a great dealina short spaceof time.
Telcphone boxes are spaced at regular intervals along the motorway.
Makesurethe posts are spaced evenly apart.
The house bendfits from a deceptively spacious kitchen (= that islarger than it seems).
There wasa garden spade in the shed.
He dug a deep hole in the lawn with his spade.
The bridge has a clear span of 36 metres.
The bird has a I-metre wingspan.
The speech continued well beyond its allotted span.
He has a short attention span.
The book covers the entire span of Arab history.
Developments were monitored over a span of twoyears.
She hardly spared him a second glance.
We ‘Should get there with half an hour to spare.
The firework showered sparks all over the lour.
His iron-tipped stick struck sparks from the pavement.
Flying sparksset fireto the long grass.
The grinding wheel sent a shower of sparks across the workbench.
His performances lack creativespar.
Shefelta little spark of anger.
Her eyes shot sparks of contempt.
His remarks drew sparks from her.
Sparks flew at the meeting.
Alive band added extra sparkle to the occasion.
The muscle goes into spasm, producing the sympiom of cramp.
In~ Shecould not speak; her throat was in spasm.
He kicked the chair in a spasm of impatience.
Rain spattered against the window.
Blood was spattered on the walls and doars.
The waler had spattered allover her face.
His clothes were liberally spattered with mud.
Wespoke brieflyon the phone.
Ben hardly spoke tome all evening.
The president reJSused to speak to the waiting journalists.
No ‘one had ever dared speak to him like that before.
Edand Dave aren't speaking at the moment.
You must speak loudly and cleariy on the stage.
She spoke eloguently about the need for action.
She was so moved she could hardly speak.
She opened her mouth to speak and found shecouldn'.
He nodded, not trusting himself to speak.
He spoke out against mismanagement.
In tavour of She spoke in favour of the new tax.
She speaks on women's issues.
He speaks very warmly of you.
He will be ‘speaking to history students about the catises of war.
He speaks German fluentls.
She's a good public speaker.
He's a fluent Arabic speaker.
The tribesmen were armed with spears and shields.
The restaurant has an extensive menu and daily specials.
There are lotsof TV Christmas specials for children this year.
She isa specialist in eighteenth-century English pointing.
Reaney, a noted specialistin the field.
His specialization is too narrow to beof interest to more than a handful of students.
There has been increased economic specialization throughout thecountr.
The production line involves a high degreeaf specialization of labour.
Her degree is in French, with specialization inseventeenth-century literature.
The company has gradually focused on its current areas of specialization.
The area is rich in different plant ‘species.
Similar speciesof fish occur in Mongolia.
She was quite specific about the type she wanted.
The yachts are built to the highest specificotions.
The manager has drafted job specifications for each of the positions.
Each vehicle can be equipped according to sour specifications.
She did not specify precisely how mony people were involved in the incident.
Eoch computer is uniquely specified by its serial number.
It should be possible t specify the range of values of X which would sotisfy this equation.
This is a fine spectmen of a walnuttree.
Hangings took place outside the ‘prison s public spectacle.
She pushed her spectacles up her nose and sighed.
He peered at the waiter over his spectacles.
Her spectacles glinted in the moonlight.
His spectacles steaned up in the hot room.
Spectators lined the route of the president’s walkabout.
Wall Street's collapse raised spectresof the 1967 stock market crash.
The terrible spectre of civil war hung over the country onceagoin.
Visible Beyond the red end of the visible light spectrum is infrared.
Other species can perceive colours of the spectrum thot ore invisible to us.
The courses cover the full spectrum af levels.
There wos consensus across the political spectrum.
The wo speakers were chosen to represent opposite ends of the spectrum.
The newspaper covers broad spectrum of opinion.
It is idle (o speculate what the conse- ‘quences would have been.
There was no point speculoting about the ‘possibility of them getting back together.
We can only speculate as to this man’s identity.
He refused to speculate on her reasons for leaving.
Whether or not he witl get the job is mere specula.
He was dropped from the team amid speculation that he wasseriously ill.
Therewas wild speculation among the students as to the reason Jfor cancelling the lecture.
There has been increasing speculation over the future of the ‘monarchy.
She could tell by his slurred speech that he had been drinking.
The demonstrators were demanding rights of assembly and free speech.
Most people have speech, but significanly fewer have uriting.
In~ Certain grammatical rules mus be followed when describing a conversation in reported speech.
When we falk aboul “selfish’ genes i is Just a figure of speech.
He temporarily tost the power of speech after the accident.
Budget, campaign, conference, farawall, inaugural Te prizewinner gave an emational acceptance speech.
His ‘speech wos broadcast on nationalradio.
She made a stirring cam- ‘paign speech on Improving the lot of the unemployed.
In her spesch to the House of Commans, she outlined her vision of Britain in the 21stcentury.
The news le/t us all speechiess.
He was almost speechless with anger.
The new houses have been built with aslonishing speed.
He drove us to the haspital at breakneck speed.
The machinery is regulated to a safe running speed.
The Greek runner produced an electrifying burst of speed over the last 50metres.
The train pulled out of the station, slowly gathering speed.
Mallard’ hoids the speed record for a steam locomotive.
The train was travelling at speed when the accident happened.
Hedgehogs, though small, can move with surprising speed.
He was running af full speed when @ tendon snopped in his leg.
The ‘boat can be brought to a stop from full speed ahead within her own length.
Concorde crosses the Atlantic at twice the speed of sound.
For a smallcar it has a good turn of speed.
The driver ‘had been stopped twice for speeding on the same day.
Motoristscan be fined on the spot for exceeding speed Limits.
He was driving over the 60 mph speed.
You have (o come down that hillin a low gear tokeep within the speed limit.
He's gaing through bit of @ bad spell at the moment.
Viera ended his barren spell with a goal against Parma.
She managed to write a letter during a quiet spell at work.
He had a brief spellas ambassador to Turkey.
The witch cast a spell on/over then.
She uttered the magic word, and the spell was broken.
Sleeping Beauty was under a spell when the prince found her; under sb's~ The udience was completely under his spell.
She spelled out precisely what she wanted.
Do I really have to spell it out for you? to His speech spelled outa clear message to thecar industry.
Thedocumentusesthe British spelling for caesium.
Try to be objective if you want to spend your money wisely.
The company spenta loton advertising.
There has been an increase in total government spending.
More spending on the National Health Servicewas promised.
The sperm fertilizes the egz.
He wanted to spread his ideas to a wider sphere than the school.
His work is little Known outside the ccademic sphere.
The region s within the Russian sphere of ir/luence.
The romance added spice to the holiday.
Their bread is spiced with cinnamon.
The soup tasted mildly spicy.
He opened the curtains, letting the morning light spill into the room.
Iy spilled my drink all over him.
She puts heavy topspin on her serve.
Hehad tostop the helicopter from going intoa spin.
The president's death sent the stock market into a spin.
Give the washing another spin.
The chairman tried to put a positivespin on the closure of the factory.
The film retells the fomous legend with a Morsxistspin.
The blade spins very fast.
The wheel can now spin freely.
The wine made my head spin.
The dinghy spun like @ top and a huge wave came at me.
She spun on her heel and walked out of the room.
The car spun out of control.
An icy chill slid up my spine.
Once embedded in the skin, these savagespines are difficult to dislodge.
In~[will bewith you in spirit.
We sang songs to Keep our spirits up.
She isn't inthe bestof spirits today.
She was a guiding spirit in primary education.
He Jfound Kindred spirits in the peace movement.
She has plenty of fightingspirit.
Hesang with great spirit.
Ouwls were believed 1o be restless spirits who had returned 10 carth.
She slcpt with a cross under the pillow toward off evil spirits.
Many people believe the spirit tives on after death.
This is an deeply spiritual piece of music.
The colours had an almost spiritual quality.
He vented his spiteon his grandfather.
She Killed her neighbour's cow out of pure spite.
Your cooking is hard to forge,” he said with spite.
She intended tomakea big splash with her wedding.
She jumped into the pool witha splash.
Window boxes of tulips ‘added a splash of colour 1o the street.
The baby was splashing happily in the bath.
Rain splashed against the window.
She splashed some petrol onto the wood and set Jfire to i1, over She splashed some water over her boots to clean them.
They splashed through the puddies.
Her clean washing was all splashed with mud.
He was in his mid-forties, his hair liberally splashed with gres.
It will take a lot of repalr work before the theatre re- &gains its former splendour.
T've only Justdiscovered the splendours of the English countryside.
In solitary splendour The castle rises in solitary splendour on the fringe of the desert.
Hesplit the log into several pieces.
The lid ‘had split down the middle.
The ripe seed pod splits open and scatters the seeds.
Split the coconut in half.
Several factions split from the party.
On January 11993 Czechoslovakia formally split into two independentstates.
The party finallysplitover the issue of gun control.
The party is deeplyspliton this issue.
The cost has been split equally ‘between three countries.
The profit will be spllt threeways.
Her selfish behaviour completeIy spoiled the evening.
It would be a pity to spoil the surprise.
Don't letthe bad weather spoil your holiday.
The soldiers began to divide the spoils.
This sponge doesn’t soak up water very well.
Wipe the surface with a damp sponge.
The company has decided to withdraw from some of its ‘sports sponsorship.
Two million pounds were raised through sponsorship.
Without generous corporate sponsorship, the ballet company would not have survived.
Worid Cup ~from We havewon sponsorship from one of the big banks.
It got a bit $pooky when James started telling ghost stories.
Ketballis a non-contact sport.
Combat sports such as karate and judo carry with them the risk of injury.
He does a lot of sport.
We ‘played sports together when we were kids.
The following nouns all follow sports.
Sports coverage in the local newspaper is quite good.
They are all keen sportsmen.
The children all had measles, and had broken outinspots.
You can do sport or play sports: Do you do a ot of sport? We played sports together when we were kids.
You can also: do go aerobics angling athletics bowiing gymnastics cycling judo fishing Karate mountaineering the high jump riding the long jump skateboarding the pole vault skating weightlifiing skiing wrestling to aerobics, judo, etc.
The lake is one of the local beauty spofs.
From ‘his angry reply it was obvious that I had touched a sensitive spot.
Check your house for weak spots where a thief could get in.
The record quickly reached the number one spot in the charts.
He usually wearsa hat to hide his bald spot.
He stood rooted to the spol, unable to move.
Thefire brigade was on the spot within minutes.
Well spotted ‘There's parking space over the far side.
They shone the spotlight on a woman waving at the back of the audience.
Injunder the ~ [t was hot under the spotlights.
This isste will come under the spotlight at tomorrow’s meeting.
The quality of food in the shops is back in the spotlight.
The affatr is now out of thespotlight.
He was sprotwled out on the sofa.
She sprawled untidily in an \armchair ' PHRASES lie/sit sprawled She lay sprawled across the bed.
The blow sent him sprawling.
The boat senta cloud of spray up behindit.
Spray flew up onto the rocks.
The current survey will have @ wider ‘geogrophical spread.
Such unhygienic conditions encourage the spread of disease.
Wespread the rug out on the floor.
He had c newspoper spread ‘open on his kne.
The disease spreads easily.
Allow plenty of space Jor this plant as ifs roots spread widely.
His Jfame had spread for and wide.
Friends ‘may be spread geographically.
Neighbours, by definition, areneorby.
The effects of this policy spread far beyond children now at school.
The fire rapidly spread to adjoining buildings.
Expertise in this field is very thinly spread across the country.
Don't make the paste 100 thick, or it will not spread evenly.
He spread jam on the toast.
We tried to spread the workload evenly betuween the departments.
The course takes forty hours, spread over twenty weeks.
Uruguay’s scoring spree began in thefourth minute.
He's goneon a drinking spree.
The students spend the whole spring term on teaching practice.
They decided to give the attic a spring clean.
The ‘springs jumping on the bed.
Most of the springs have gone in the old sofa.
He sprang back in alarm.
The lion crouched, ready (o spring.
Thérése sprang at him and Kissed him on both cheeks.
Into, out ot Fle sprang out of the car.
He worked a knife blade intothe drawer and it sprang open.
The sentry spraneg to attention.
She sprang to her Jeetand ran toansuwer the doorbell.
Sprinkle sugar evenly over the top f the cake.
Sprinkle the meat lighdy with salt.
The runners broke intoasprinta few hundred yards from the finish.
Itstartedraining, so we madea sprint for a cofe.
Jamaica won the gold in the sprint relay.
Sato just pipped the Kenyan runner in a sprint finish.
In a~ This car could comfortably outpace its ri vals in a sprint.
The Moroccan came out best in a fronticsprintfor the line.
He dug his spurs into the horse's flonk and cantered off.
The research provideda spur for reform.
She putan a spurt to get fo the Station in time.
He elt a spurt of resentment ogainst his brother.
With one final spurt, he reached the topof thehill.
Hedenied acting asan enemyspy.
He was a spy for the government.
They've got logether a good squad Jor the World Cup.
It was almost his turn t0 g0 before thefiring squad.
In althe~ He's working in the drugs squad.
He was born in squalor next to London's docks.
Cut the sanduiches intoneatsquares.
In althe~ square adj.
The rooms are all very square.
The grid doesn't look quite square.
The door opened with a squeak.
She gave a little squeak of surprise.
Have you heard from them? ‘Not a squeak since yesterday.
The car stopped with a squeal of brakes.
There were seven of us in the car and it wasa tight squeeze.
Wecan getsixin the cor ot a squeeze.
All manufacturers are feeling the squeeze.
The government is trying to put the squeezeon high earners.
High interest rates have squeezed the industry hard.
The very mention of her singing made her squirm uncomfortably.
He squirmed visibly ot the thought of his secret being revealed.
Injwith He squirmed with embarrassment.
Hefelta sharp stabof disappointment.
He is accused of repeatedly stabbing a sixteen:year-old boy.
In He wos stabbed in the chest.
The policy should bring greater monet.
The country was enjoyinga period of political stability.
The conflict is becoming a threat to stability in the region.
Theunitis stable enough on level ground.
Iy, perfectly Animals rarely live in completely stable environments.
He was not emotionally stable enough to think through his decision.
The wood was collected up and carefully stacked auway.
The cases were stacked against the wall, In The paintings were stacked in a corner of the room.
The plates were neatly stacked on the draining board.
Boxes were stacked in piles aliround theroom.
Thousands packed into the stadium towatch the final.
We'll be down to a skeleton staff over Christmas.
I've heard they're recruiting staff at the moment.
Pay They pay their staff by cheque.
He joined the edtorialstaff in 1999.
The hospital is freezing staff appointments as part of its cutbacks.
On the~(of) She has been on the staff of the hos.
Theoffice will be staffed entirely with volunteers.
The process has three distinct stages.
Her husband was intheadvanced stages of cancer.
The book guides you through making your oun website In easy stages.
The water goes thraugh three stages of purification.
You should read this article at some stage.
The university was put together by stages.
We renovated the house in fwo stages.
In an important stagein her life~of the latter stages of therace + PHRASES the beginning/end of astage Pupilsaretested at the end of each stage of the course.
He was 00 nervous to goonstage.
Twas shaking as I took the stage.
She left the stage to tumultuous opplause.
The thrilling semifinals set the stage for what should be @ great game.
The stage set is the most expensive ever builz.
David Harries adopted the stage ‘name Dixon Hare when he became a full-time actor.
Even experienced actars can suffer from stagefright.
The entire castison stagein thefinal scene.
The event was very carefully staged.
She staggered blindly off into the darkness.
Into, out of, through, towards, under, etc.
Hewoas staggering under the weight of thesack.
She staggered to her fect and tottered unsteadily across the room.
He looked quite staggered by the news.
The public response was absolutely staggering.
Poor economic policies led to a long period of stagnation and decline.
Fie had grown staid and dull.
The locals werea very staid lot.
Theglassfelloff the tableand a dark stain spread over the carpet.
Thecoffee lefta stainon his shirt.
The hirt was heavily stained with blood.
The children's fingers were stained purple with blackberry juice.
Wewent up threeflights of stairs.
Take the back stairs.
The carpet was held in place by brassstair rods.
He rushed up to the bedroom, taking thestairs two ata time.
The spiral staircase ledtoanupper gatlers.
They passed each other on the staircase.
They always play for high stakes.
The minister will face the enquiry with his reputation at stake.
Sheacquired afour per centdirect stakein the bustness.
The room smelled musty andstale.
This bread's going stale.
The atmosphere was stale with cigareite smoke.
Thetalks reached (o) stalemate.
Efforts 1o break the stale.
Discussions are locked in stalemate.
The stalemate in the trade talks continues.
He hasa flower stall in Portobello Road market.
Discussions were effectively stalled by theunion'srefusal to participate.
He asked them all kinds of pointless questions, stalling for time.
She didn’t the stamina to complete the course.
Emma Walton had lo call on all her reserves of stamina to win the 10 000 metres.
Final exams at university can be as much ¢ testof stamina as of knowledge.
She stuck a first-class stamp on the letter.
The Fost Office has launched some new Christmas siamps.
His work bears the unmistakable stamp of genius.
She left her stamp on.
She stamped her fool impatiently.
He stamped off in disgust.
The boxer took up a fighting stance.
Helounged inan armchair ina stanceof deliberatecontempt.
Her public stance wos much tougher than her privatefeelings on the subject.
The wife of the accused has mainiained an im- ‘partial stance throughout the trial.
The president has adopted a hardline stance against abortion.
He has changed his stance on monetary union.
He has taken a public stand on the issue of misuse of hospital funds.
Our compony has a display stand at this year's fair.
We took it in turns to man the exhibition stand.
We can get 0 magozine l the newspaper stand.
D'l be on the stand for two hours.
You'llfind brochureson our new productson the stand.
There was some flute music oper on themusicstand.
Fe stood awkwardly in the doorway, nol sure what (o say.
Don'tust stand there—do somethine.
The roof was so low I could not stand upright.
He feltso weak he could hardiy stand.
Two condidates will bestanding against her.
She stood unsuccessfully as a candidate in the local elections.
He is standing for Oxford East in the parliamentary election.
We must ensure proper stardards of care for the elderly.
We have otry and achieve the quality standards set by the project.
The Olympic qualifying standard has been set at 64.
The region enjoys the highest living standards in Europe.
The agency has very high standards.
The fuctory is struggling to meet notional environmental standards.
She has reached an acceptable standard of English.
The hotel servicefell shortof the usual standard.
Your work is below stand.
By modern standards, he isn'ta particularly fast runner:t0 3 .
The building work had not ‘been completed 1o a satisfactory standard.
She's a great violinist by any standard.
There has been an increse in the standard of sevice provided.
My grandparents are always complaining about fulling morol standards.
Anti-lock brakes are fitted as standard.
The stations were built 10 a simple, almost standard design.
Professor Greenan has a high standing in the academic world.
His standing as a film director has risen in recent years.
She was appointed for her high moral standing with the general public.
Their relctionshipisof many years' standing.
We must approach the problem from a different standpoint.
We should try to adopt a more positive standpoin.
From the standpoint of women, thislooks like a policy of discrimination.
The train came to a complete standstill.
The roadworks brought the traffic toa standistill.
Thefactory has been ata standstill for days.
There were several big Hollywood stars at the Jfunction.
Channel 4 has lined up galaxy of stars for the coming season.
He was the star turn at the celebrations.
The film was nothing more thana star vehicle for Tom Hanks.
This young tennis player is being tipped for stardom.
He was groomed for stardom by his rock singer father.
He set out on the lonely road to stardom early in life.
Incredulously, open-mouthed, wideeyed, wildly 7 stared at him open-mouthed, unable to speak.
He stared ot me bleakly and said nothing.
She stared ot him stonily as he comein.
She stared back at him.
He stared straight ahead and did not ‘move.
Shecould only stare at ‘him with pain in her eyes.
Everyone in the room turned to stare at her.
She stalked off leaving them all staring after her: aroundiround, at, in Itared in horror at his bloody mouth.
He just stared at her with disbelief © PHRASES sit/stand staring, stand/stop and stare It was 100 cold to stand and stare.
Into space She was Justsitting there, staring into space.
Despite a bright start, Liverpool lost the match.
Everyone was in a conciliatory mood at the start of the meeting.
She felt at home in ‘her newjobrightfrom the start.
Thefine winter weather heralded a good start tothe year:~in Moving toa good.
Sally a fresh startin life.
This isa thoroughly good book from start to finish.
Her heart suddenly started to race.
He has just started at school.
At that Ppoint Ijuststarted to hate the man.
We'llstart off by doing some warm-up exercises.
We'll Jjusthave tostart all over again.
Work is due to start this weekend.
By early evening he was ready to start work.
You'd better start packing if you're to leave early tomarrow morning.
Let's start by reviewing what wedid last week.
Start from the beginning and tell me exactly what happened.
I've finished decorating the bathroom, so now I can start on the bedroom.
Let's start with this first piece of music.
Thisdish can be served asa starter or a main course.
They reached the same conclusion Jfrom different starting points.
Your paper provides @ usefulstarting point for the discussion startled adj.
She was obviously a little startled at this idea.
The pilot had lost consciousness because of oxygen staruation.
The workers lived in poor conditions and were poid starvation wages.
Sherefused food and literally storved herselftodeath.
The poor cat was half starved.
She managed to get the company’s finances into a healthy state.
We were shocked at the run-down state of the hospital.
He's not in a fit enough mental state to drive.
The inspectrs assess the physical state of schools and equipment.
He goes into a trance like state when he plays the guitar.
You can either varnish the wood or leave it in its natural state.
The coun try is in a perpetual state of anarchy.
Jane was in a terrible state after losing her Job.
Babies can cry themselves into a state of frenzs.
His lifeseems to be in a constant state of chaos.
The hause was in a poor state of repeir when we bought it.
The brothers'refusal to work together had brought about this sad state of affairs.
The education system isstill in a state of flux following the recent reform.
He's concerned about his mother's state of health.
Public speaking can produce a state of mind akin to panic.
The driver was justsitting there ina state of shack.
The telephone network isstill under state control.
Everycitizen could buy shares in privatized state property.
Teachers in the state sector are asking fora 7% pay rise.
Some prefer tax cuts to greater state spending on health and social services.
He was shat for passing state secrets to foreign pouers.
The president’s wife is said to have a powerful hand in affairs of tate.
Visiting heads of state usually stay in the palace.
Please state clearly how many tickets sou require.
These facts were nowhere explicitly stated.
She stated cotegorically that she had no intention of leaving.
Alcohol doesn't solve problems.
Iy, publicly He stated his oun views quiteopenly.
The demands are more easily stated than met.
As previously stated, the phrase ‘value for money’ has an ambiguous meaning.
The report goes on 1o state that: .
The committee fuiled to state their reasons for this decision.
We cannot accept this proposal for the reasons stated above.
Attheriskof stating the obvious, people who have not paid cannot be admitted.
Saunder's lawyer made a brief statement to the press outside the court.
His bald statement that he'd resigned concealed his anxiety about the situation.
An explicit statement af objectives is vital before the project begins.
She made one of her sweeping statements about foreigners.
The tuwo heads of state issued a joint statement.
They decided to make a political statement by refusing tovote.
The police will take a statement from each of you.
In a statement released today, the Department of Health soid .
The clothes you stature wear are a statement about yourself.
He's trying to withdraw the statement ‘hemade to Partiament last week.
Political power resided with the nation’s elder statesman and party leader.
The population remained more or less static.
The economy is foirly static at the moment.
We get off at the next station.
Wegot tothestation just as the train was pulling out.
The tratn arrived at Oxford Station twenty minutes late.
He got off ot the same station.
There's anewspaper kiosk in the station.
Wewaited for him at the coach station.
The bald statistics tell us nothing about the under.
We no longer keepstatistics on former employees.
According to official statistics, the island had 37 inkabitants.
The government has released new statistics on the cost of living.
The statue shows King Richard in full stature beside his horse.
The president lacks physical stature.
Despite his lack of stature, ‘he became a successful footballer: small in stature Both her parentsarefairly smallin stature.
In, rise In She has grown in stature since winning the Tehaikousky Piano Competition.
Geomorphology has now achieved Jullstatureas a branch of geology.
Theelection result_enhanced the party's stature.
Her reputation has risen toworld stature.
Fis political statureincreased during the crisis.
The relative statusof the speakers afJects what language is used.
They argued that the email had no signature and therefore na legal status.
The organization has charitable status.
Heachieved celebrity status through his role in a popular sitcom.
The teaching profession "has a low status in England.
This sort of bike has status among teenagers.
Marrying a rich woman helped him achieve status.
Ouning the yacht has given them status.
High social status s attached to the legal profession.
At last James had an office that befitted his status.
The neighbourhood has risen in status in recent years.
They are campalgning to raise the status of nurses.
Churches seem to have lost some of their status.
She applied for resident status but was turned down.
They have acquired refugee status.
Women are still denied equal status in the compans.
China's Status as an economic superpower ~among The company has managed to maintain its status among retailers.
There are many peaple who wish to maintain the status quo.
They wanted areturn tothe status quo before the war.
This archaic law remained on the statute books until last year.
Local authorities are required by statute to ‘provide care homes for the elderly.
In recent years the average hospital stay for elderly patients has decreased.
She has extended herstay by threedays.
Ve did a lot of walking during our stay.
It poured with rain throughout their stas.
Alex stayed behind when the others 'had gone.
She failed her exam, and had to stay on at school for another year.
I'm staying late at the office tonight.
We can't stay here indefinitely.
We ended up staying for lunch.
I'm going 1o stay untll tomorrow.
Stay with me, * he Dleaded.
His gaze was rock steady.
She opened the letter with hands that were not quite steady.
Share prices have held steady over the last few days.
The saucepan on the cooker puffed listl jetsof steam.
Steam rosefrom ‘her mug of cocoa.
The engine is driven by steam.
Savour the sights and smells of the age of steam in the National Railway Museum.
The ferrain isaften deceptively steep (= steeper than you expect).
Turnthe steering wheel hard to the right.
He grabbed the steering wheel from her to prevent the car going off the road.
When the bush has finished flowering, cut ‘backallthe stems.
There are several leaves on each stem.
Cuthalfan inch aff the baseaf each stem.
He'd onlygonea few steps, when herealizedhe'd lef hiswallet behind.
You might find your ticketif you retrace your steps back to the car.
She was only a step away from the cliff edge.
He took a hesitant step towards her.
He lagged a few steps behind.
He executed some jive steps on the pavement.
She had trouble ‘keeping in step.
In~, out of ~ (with) He was out of step with the music.
We shall take all necessary steps to prevent public disorder.
The new law is seen by many as a backward step.
They have taken their first tentative stepstowards democracy.
If you/ollow all thesteps, nothing will gowrong.
The move was a first step in establishing a union.
The talks marka step towards peace.
Greece moved a step closer to the World Cup finals with last night's win.
Theoffer constitutes aconsiderable step forward.
If he goes one step further with this crazy idea, I'll resign.
The new speed limit does not solve the problem, but it is a step in the right direction.
She paused on the top step.
There are threestepsdown to thegarden.
She went up a flight of steps to the side entrance.
The front steps lead to an enormous terrace.
He stepped back smartly from the edge.
Dor'tstep in the pudle.
Jokes perpetuate various national stereotypes.
Not all areas of the country fit the stereotypes of the poor north and the rich south.
French ~of the stereotype of women as passive victims sterile adj.
This topfits over the bottle and keeps the teat sterile.
Male workers were made permanently sterile by this pesticide.
She was an active trade unionist and had been elected a shop steward.
He simply stuck a pin in at random amongst the names of candidates.
He stuck the note through her letter box.
She simply mode a decision and resolutely stuck toit.
The rubber’s gone all sticky.
The paint wasstill stightly sticky.
His hair was sticky with blood.
She lay stiff and still beside him.
My trousers were getting stiff with mud.
My fingers had gonestiff with cold.
Wit The clothes were stiff with dust and grease.
He felt stiff all over.
You'll get stiff if you don’t have a hot bath.
His manner seemed rather tiff and impersonal.
Being an unmarried mother used to carry a social stigma.
He still suffered the stigma of having been rejected Jor thearmy.
Thereis still lot of stigma attached to suicide.
There isno stigma to being made redundant.
Hold still a minute while I pin your dress up.
He stood stockstill, hardly daring to breathe.
Suddenly everything went still.
It was a completely still, warm evening.
There was a sudden stillness in theair.
He lay in absolute sillness.
An interest rate increase directly stimulates saving and reduces real expenditure.
The programme contains some creative and visually stimulating material.
You don’t gef any intellectual stimulation in this job.
The playgroup provides plenty of stimulation for the children.
The initial stimulus camefrom a letter in the newspaper.
Theveryactof lying down in bed should providea strong stimulus or sleep.
The scorpion has a sting that can bedeadly.
You can geta nasty ting from a jeliyfish.
Hefeltthe sharpsting of the soapin hisepes.
The parents of the pupils say they'll kick up a stink if the school roof isn't repaired before the winter.
He's doing a brief stint at the World Bank in Washington.
She met her husband during her stintat the London office.
The only stipulation the building society makes is that house must be insured.
He left all his money to the toun with the stipulation that it should be used to build a new football stadium.
There's no stipulation as to theamount you can invest.
There was quite a stir about the book.
The discovery caused something of a stir among physicists.
Bring to the boil, stirring all the time.
In Gradually stir in the beaten egg.
Into Chopan onlonand stir it info the sauce.
The students stirred restlessly in their seats.
Jire or deeply stir the emotions.
She ‘stood up in her stirrups 0 see where the others had gone.
She had to lengthen her stirrup leathers.
He put hisfeet in thestirrups.
Put a stitch in the corner of the pocket to Keep it in place.
The edge was sewn with blanket stitch.
Hehad tuenty stitches in a head wound.
The ‘housing stock is no longer large enough for the population.
The big supermarkets carry huge stocks of most goods.
They're selling off their old stock cheap.
Stocks of coal are running dangerously low.
The offer is onty avatlable while stockslast.
We can supply the table from stock.
Red tights are out of stock.
Thestocks werevalued ot £100 000.
In~5 She's got about £30 000 in stocks.
The total valueof the stocks was over £3million.
Flavour the stock with bay leaves.
In altha~ Poach the fish in the stock.
Bahrain's ‘stock exchange closed up 10.
She slowly peeled off one stocking.
She loddered her stocking ‘ona brambie bush.
You shouldn't drink wine on an empty stomach (= without eating food).
She's ‘been off work with an upset stomach.
The smell of the dead dog turned his siomach.
He had his ‘stomach pumjped after taking an overdose.
My stomach lurched os another big wove hit the boat.
Human remains were found among the stomach contents of the shark.
He sucked in_his stomach as he walked past the girls.
Call a doctor! he said, clutching his stomach.
T'm eating for two now, she said, patting her stomach.
Ilayon my stomach on the beach.
The walls were hewn from local stone.
The path's stone flags were worn ond broken.
Heis a sculptor who works mainly in stone.
Some loose stones tumbled down the slope behind her.
The boys were caught throwing stonesat passing troins.
She had the stone set inaring.
She pulled upa stoolnext to me.
The cars made two pit stops during the race.
She brought the car toanabrupt stop.
The truck came to sudden stop.
We had a lunch stop at Timperley.
Therewill be a stop at Canterbury.
We were chatting and missed our stop.
We dropped the kids offat the bus stop.
The question stopped Alice in her tracks.
He couldn't stop thinking about her.
They tried to stop me from leaving.
We had our tickets checked ot each stapover: during athe ~ During our two-day stopover in 'Bangkok we saw mostof the sights.
The stoppage was colled to protest against wage cuts.
Thestrawberriesare putinto cold storage for several months.
The cheese hasa storage lfe of two months.
All their furniture is in storage until they come back from Africe.
The grain store holds several thousand tonmes.
In althe ~ You'll find a ladder in the equipment store.
The paintings were carefully stored in crates dependent on their size.
Butane can be conveniently storedasa liquid In.
The house has three storeys.
The kitchen occupies the lower storey.
The building is four storeys high.
It was the worst storm {o hit London this century.
The starm raged all night.
The starm broke while we were on the mountain.
The storm blew over after a coupleaf hours.
Winter storms swept the coasts.
The storm lasted for three days.
In 1939 the storm clouds gathered over Europe.
The government isdetermined to ride out the political storm sparked by its ‘new immigration policy.
His comments crealedastorm of protest in the media.
Britain and America over Venezuela.
She told the police a false story about being atiacked.
Noone would believe such a tallstory.
The official story was that the singer had broken his arm folling in the shower.
The film tells the improbable story of a monkey that becomes a politician.
There s one ‘popular story in the village of a man-eating cat that lives in the forest.
Iife, success She told them her life stary.
He was boring peoplewith more f his hard-luck staries.
The film is the rags-toiches story of a country girl who becomes @ famous singer.
The film lacks a coherent story.
We had difficulty in piecing together the fragmentsof her story.
My dad sometimes read mea story at bedtime.
The police didr't believe her story.
We must stick to our story about the accident.
Atfirst he denied everything, butthen he changed hisstory and said it was an accident.
We swapped stories about our worst teachers.
Stories abound of vandalism and looting.
The stary ‘opens with a man hiding from the police under a woman’s skirt.
The motives of the hero become clearer as the story unfolds.
Thisstary illustrates the dangers of living on credit.
His navels always have thesame basicstoryline.
Many years later I returned to Africa but that's another story (= 1 am not £0ing to talk about it now).
How come you've anly got ne shoe on? ‘Ifs a long story” sb's halfiside of the story The teacher punished me without listening to my side of the story.
She never saw him again—or so the story goes.
Out of work with no money—that's the story of my life.
Anyway, to cut a long story short (=not togiveall the details), we had this argument and I haven't seen him since.
According to Rachel's version af thesstary they threw the key in the river.
And now back toour topstory tonight .
Full story on page 3.
The magazine gives the inside story of Iife in a rock band.
More than one correspondent Jiled a story about the incident.
Fvery newspaper carried thestory.
The luggage was now safely stowedaway inthe back of the truck.
Keep your back absolutely straight.
Keep going in a dead straight line.
His teeth were white and perfectly straight.
I'm trying to get the house straight before the weekend.
She tidied upand put the ornaments straight.
Let's get this absolutely stralght.
Look, if's perfectly straightforward—just multiply everything by five.
Getting fundingfor the project was far from straighiforward.
The answer to this question Is deceptively straightforward (= mare straightforward than it looks).
He was quite straightforward with us about the difficulties involved.
The mental strain of sharing an affice with Alison was starting to tell.
Television newsreaders come under enormous strain.
After weeks of overtime, she was starting io feel the strain.
Increasing demand is placing undue strain on services.
After six weeks of uncertainty, the strain was beginning to take its toll.
The ice gave way under the strain.
There's too much strain on the corner of the table.
After three years, their marriage was beginning to show signs of strain.
The new scheme isdesigned to take the strain out of shopping.
You'll geteyestrain if you don’t put the light on.
Gerrard will play if he can shake off a slight thigh strain.
The dogs were straining against the sledge.
Several men were straining at a rope, trying to move the stalled vehicle.
Their ears strained for any slight sound.
We had t0 strain to hear what was being said.
She looked rather strained and miserable.
The atmosphere remained somewhat strained all evening.
Relations between the two countries had become severely strained.
Theoil terminal isin the narrow strait that separates the island from the mainland.
He tried to swim across the Straits of Gibraltar: in the ~ a ship anchored in the Straits of ‘Hormuz on the ~ The town is on the straits between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean.
Many hundreds of vessels pass through the straits each year.
The business is in dire financial straits.
She wove the four coloured strands together intoa ribbon.
At the end, all the different strands of the story are brought together.
There are various strands in feminist thinking.
We ended up stranded in Paris with no money.
Some people Jound themseluves stranded in the Iits as the power failed yet again.
We got stranded in the city centre after we ‘missed the last bus home.
Thousands of air travellers were left stranded by the strike.
His behaviour wasregarded as very strange.
He's quite nice, but a bit strange.
Their accent was strange to her ears.
His years abroad had made him almost a stranger with his family.
You're a stranger here, aren't you? a stranger in/to these parts A stranger ta these parts would be confused by some of the local customs.
Hewas strangled witha scarf.
The bag comes with detachable straps.
He ctipped on his safety strap.
The camera was fitted with a strap.
His binoculars were on a strap round hisneck.
She had a wide leather strap around her wrist.
Make sure that the child is strapped tightly into the bugay.
Their overall strategy I quite good, butoneor twoof the details could be improved.
The government has employed a dual strategy to achieve these two abjectives.
The council s drawing up a strategy to meet the needs of the homeless.
It is certainly a strategy worth exploring.
The document sets out the government's new strotegy.
The compony will now focus its strategyon its core businessareas.
Thecompany's finaricial strategy is not working.
The coming year may herald a change in strategy for major publishers.
The money will go towards the development of new product and sales strategies.
Isaton a bale of straw near the fre.
The rat hid in the straw.
The animals sieepon straw.
The animals hadn'tstrayed too for.
Her eyes strayed involuntarily.
Be careful not to stray from the path.
His eves strayed to the telephone.
There were dark streaks down her cheeks wihere she had been crying.
The last streaks oflight faded from thesky.
Shehada Jewstreaksof grey in her black hair.
Most of the players have a strong competitivestreak.
She suddenly revealed a meanstreak in her character.
Holidays In the Australian outback are Jor those with an adventurous streak.
There was @ streak of insanity in the famils.
The team has been on a winning streak since it won against Lazio.
We picnicked beside a bubbling stream.
In a/the~ Thereare small fish in the stream.
Cars iled past in an endless stream.
He let loose a stream of abuse.
Most local people support the idea of trafficree streets.
He grew upon the mean streets of one of the city's toughest areas.
Take the second street on the right after the bridge.
We turned down a dead-end street by mistoke.
Gangs roamed the streets at night.
Crowds thronged the streets.
Police were told to clear the streets of drug dealers before the Olympics.
Mozart is remembered by a street ‘named ofter him.
Most street names were changed under the new regime.
His spell in prison gained him a lot of street cred.
Thecharity is having a street collection in aid of the local hospital.
He could see her across the streel.
We live in Barker Street.
Into althe ~ She stepped out into the street.
He turned into a side street.
Thousands of peaple were outon the Streets for the protest.
He wandered through the streets of Colcutta.
There's a chemist’s just up the street.
The material has exceptionally high strength for its weight.
Hls superior physical strength won him the title.
They are reinforced with steel for extrastrength.
He had just enough strength ta reach for the phore.
I'm trying to summon up thestrength to do some more work.
You nieed to tryand build up your strength beJore the winter > The opinion that the president should stand doun has gained considerable strength.
The metal reinforcement gives it the Strength to resist the high winds.
The series of steep hills sapped the cyclists strength.
Shewas ableto drawon her immenseinner strength.
He put all his strength into reorganizing the deportment.
Her unwillingness to ansuer questions under- ‘mined thestrength of her position.
T'ie country's economic strength isdeclining.
Her strength was ebbing fast, sa her children were calledto her bedside.
Injuries meant that the Dutch team was below strength for the final.
She pushed him away with unexpected strength.
The orchestra was at full strength for the Mahler symphony.
I'm still not quite back lo full strength ofter my illness.
He used toentertain peaple with his featsof strength.
He was a tower of strength to his sister' when their father died.
When she had twins, she discovered reserves of strength that she didn't know she had.
Her childhood memories were a great source of strength when her mother was killed.
With strength born of pure panic.
The dispute developed into a trial of strength between management and the urion.
She threw the rope with oll her strength.
The team may not ‘have the best players, but it plays to its strengths.
Her great strength lies in her flexibility.
The success in the election strengthened the party’s position considerably.
This merger will further strengthen the company and ensure its continued success.
This temporary set- ‘back merely strengthened her resole.
These exercises are designed to strengthen your stomach muscles.
The euro has strengthened against the dollar.
The new law is aimed at strengthening protective measures for workers.
Separation is a time of high emotional stress.
The high mortgage pay- ‘ments put them under severe financial stress.
He's been under a lot of tress lately.
He's had to give up his Jjob as leader of the project—hejust couldn’t take the stress.
Staff are encouraged to goon stress manage ment courses.
He broke under stressand had to leave.
An overcrowded workplace can bea major source of stress.
Tiredness is oneaf the mast common symptoms of stress.
There's been alotof stress on getting drug sellers off the streets.
Italian words usually have the main stress on the penultimate syllable in the word.
The first syllable takes the stress.
Mark the primary stress in each word.
There is equalstressonallparts of the structure.
The tower exerts an enormous stress on the walls.
The movements set up stresses in the earth's crust.
Stress is applied to the wood to make it bend.
Standing allday putsstress on your feet.
The buttresses are subject.
Some woods worp under strss.
He stressed the point very strongly that all these services cost money.
She has constantly stressed the government's poor record in this area.
Doctors haverightly stressed the importance of exercise.
She is at pains to stress the cultural differences betuween the two countries.
It is worth stressing that this wasonly a relatively small survey.
My job's getting more and more stressful.
It was an emotionally stress.
There are tilbacks along a 10mile stretch of the motorway.
Her arms were at full stretch.
Make sure that the ropeis streiched tight.
Stretch the fabric tightly over the frame.
Striped awnings had been stretched across the courtyard.
He stirred and stretched lazily.
Andrea turned out the light and stretched full-length on the bed.
The wood does nolstretch veryfar.
The road stretched ahead.
The beach seemed to stretch endlessly.
The beach stretches for five ‘miles.
The town's history stretches back to before 1500.
Endless summer days stretched out before us.
The talks look set to stretch into a second week.
We can' take on ary more work— we'refully stretched as itfs.
Thisdepartment is stretched to its limit.
Without breaking her stride she ducked the ball.
He matched his stride to her slower pace.
She's made enormaus strides in English this term.
He strode off in search of a taxi.
She strode purposefully to- ‘wards the door.
He came striding up the path.
The country has been torn apart by years of civil strife.
He lost his job during last year's industrial strife.
The suppression of the strike led to sympathy strikes in other industries.
Theunion leaders called a strike.
He called all the workers out on strike.
More train strikes are threatened.
The army was used to help break the strike.
The netw government banned strikes.
The strike soon spread to other cities.
Prison officers are threatening to take strike action.
There was a continual police presence during thestrike.
Tn protest at a strike in protest at the government’s economic policies ~in support of Miners staged a oneday strike in support of the Steel workers.
The house was damaged in an air strike.
The alrcraft carried out a preemptivestrikeagainst bases in the north.
He struck her hard across the fuce.
The German armystruck deepintonorthern France.
The re- ‘mark struck home.
The oar struck against something hard.
He struck at me repeatedly with a stick.
He struck the ball firmly into the back of the net.
The bal struck heron the head.
Jt suddenly struck me how we could improve the situation.
An awful thought has just struck me.
Joan was struck quite orcibly by thesilence.
Hestruck meas being rather stupid.
The union has voted to strike for @ payincrease of six per cent.
That hat looks very striking.
Shewastall and quite striking.
What s immediatelystriking is how resourceful the children are.
Thepicture was striking in its simplicity.
He pulled the string tight.
He had hair like tangled yellow string.
Length of string to tie up the package.
Tie the tring round the parcel.
He wound the string into a ball.
Next to the ‘phone, there was a pencil dangling on astring.
On althe~Play iton the Gstring.
Cut the meat into thick strips.
This aircraft requires a good-sized landing strip.
The wallpaper can then be torn off instrips.
Office workers stripped down 1o their shirtsleeves in the heatwave.
Hestripped off his shirt.
Westripped off and went for aswim.
She was stripped nakedand leftina cell strip to tha waist He stripped to the waist and began to dig.
The bark is stripped from the trees by hand.
The president had been completely stripped of power off Westripped the paint off the walls.
The room had been stripped bare by the thieves.
The butterfly is black and white witha blue stripe running down each wing.
The toad has a distinctive yellow stripedouwn its back.
Hestrove very hard toremain calm.
The school constantly strives for excellence in its teaching.
She caught his likeness with a few bold brush strokes.
He played same pawerful backhand strokes throughout the game.
Woods leads by two strokes.
He suam back with long slow strokes.
You can't swim more than four strokes befare you reach the other side.
She had a massive strakeand lost her speech.
Thestrake left him paraIyseddown his rightside.
They lost half their fortune ata stroke.
NoTE Swimming strokes afast, powerful, strong crawl a slow breaststroke do, swim (the)~ @ swimmer doing the crowl Ican't swim butterfly.
She struck aut with a strong craw towards the share.
Hedid 15 lengths of backstroke every morning.
In competitions the categories are backstroke, breaststroke, butterfly, and freestyle (= in which competitors do crawl because it s fastest).
Hecome firstin the 200 metres backstroke.
He stroked his beard thoughtfully.
She gently stroked away his tears.
The shops are only atenminutestrollaway.
They taok aleisurelystroll long the river bank.
Yaway The beach is only ashort stroll away.
They strolled down to the canal.
All that cutdoor work has made him very sirong.
Don't 17y to,go back to work before you are physically strong enough.
The bex looks strong enough.
This news ‘helped keep the dallar relatively strong today.
He exerts an extremely strong influence on his classmotes.
The flimsy structure of the vehicle could ot withstand even mild impacts.
The cell walls of plants are of ¢ foirly rigid structure.
In~ The butlding is very simple in structure.
The novel suffers from a lock of structure.
She had structured her arguments very carfully.
The teaching is structured around three opics.
Into The com ponyis structured into twodivistons.
There were the sounds of a desperate struggle.
The UN supported what it sow as the Just struggle of an oppressed people.
They took up the strugglecgainstrocism.
In ajthe~ One of the security guards was hurt in the struggle.
She won't give up withouta struggle.
He was involved in G struggle with the police.
After 150years of struggle against brutal colonicl rule, the country won its independence.
I've given up the unequal struggle to keep my house tdy.
He struggled hard to Keep the boat upright.
Ste struggled on despite the pain.
The smail boot struggled against the waves.
Shona struggled for breath.
The fumily struggled through the next few years.
They struggled up the hill.
I'm really struggling with thisessoy.
Shestruggled to her feet and setoff after him.
The team struggled badly last season.
She struggled furiously but could not get cway.
Ben and Jack struggled together on the gross.
He was hit inthe mouth as he struggled with the raiders.
Theattacker's victim managed tostrugglefree.
She got the key stuck in the lock.
In, onto, to Thetiles were stuck firmly to the wall.
Student numbers at the college have increased by 25 per cent.
She travelled a lot in her student days.
In althe~ The photograph was taken ina studio.
Independent, private 7hls grammar bookissuitable both Jor clossroom use and for independent stud.
The course integrates academic study and practical treining.
Now that her children are cll at school, she's going to take upfull-time study gain.
Sunday at the church.
The company allows tis staff to take paid study leave.
Kills The first part of the courseis designed todevelop students' study skills.
Students do @ foundation year before specializing in their chosen field of study.
Mony undertake further studies after passing their Alevels.
When he has completed his studics, he'll travel round the world.
She returned to her studies when her children reached school oge.
She's doing women's studies ot Liverpool University.
The present study reveals an unacceptable levelof air pollution in thecity centre.
She devoted herself toa serious study of the Koran.
Research studies carried out in Italy confirmed the theors.
This phenomenon has been observed in both laboratory ‘andfield studies.
The company undertook an extensive feasibillty study before adopting the new system.
He has madea special study of the way that birds com- ‘municote with one another.
The study compares the incidence of bone cancer in men and women.
The study provided valuable insight into the development of the disease.
The study highlighted threeproblemareas.
The study group was selected froma broadcross section of the population.
In a recent study, 40% of schools were Jound to be understaffed.
Shakespearesthe subjectof anewstudy by Anthony Bryan.
She is studying hard for her A levels.
He studied under Professor Sager.
In detail, intently, intensively She picked up the letter and studied it carefully: I the third year a number of areas are studied in detail.
He studied her thoughtfully, then smiled.
The influence of heredity is best studied in genetically identical tuwins.
He hastily stuffed a fewclothes into a bag.
She stuffed her case with presents for the kids.
Her briefoase was stuffed full of papers.
She stumbled a littleon the uneven path.
He stumbled blindly on through the dark building.
They stumbled over the ploughed field.
The train stopped, and several passengers stumbled to thetr feet.
Thequestion of disarmament proved a major stumbling block to agreement.
The assault was so unexpected that he was briefly stunned into submission.
The guests werestunned into silence.
Morton stood stunned, unable to believe his ears.
They seemed stunned at his outburst.
She wasa it stunned by the news.
She arranged a publicity stunt {o make the public aware of the product.
They jumped off London Bridge asa publicity stunt.
It really stupid when I realized what had happened.
My sister made me look stupid in front of allmyriends.
T'm not entirely stupid.
He's stupid enough to believe anything.
Her answer ‘showed the most incredible stupidity.
Through his oun stupidity, he missed an excellent opportunit.
As the whisky took effect, he gradually fell intoa drunken stupor.
Hefell to the ground in a stupor.
He spoke with a stutter; which got worsewhen he was angry.
The 16th century house has been renovated and furnished in contemporarystyle.
The article is written in a conversational style.
His aggressive style of play sometimes gets him in trouble.
The twoartists haveradically dif: ferent styles.
The pianist had to tailor his style to suit the vocalist’s distinctive voice.
The new ‘houses have been built n a traditional style.
The ‘whole house just oozed style.
Whatever shedid, she did it with style.
She was dressed in grey and looked suitably subdued.
Idon’t wish to discuss itany further—the subject is closed.
Each candidate has to speak for three minutes on their chosen subject.
Once he gets onto his pet subject there’s no stopping him.
We touched briefly on the subject.
We want to have a fresh look at the difficult subJect of social security benefits.
Let's drop the subject since we don't seem to be able to agree.
She was supposed 10 be speaking about sales Jigures, but she kept wandering off the subject.
Getting back to the subject of heating.
Don't change the subject.
The subject of gam "bling has come up several times recently.
While we're on the subject of the theatre, has anyone been to see the new show? PHRASES a range of subjects We discussed a wide range of subjects.
The department offers seven different subJects inall.
She was disappointed to fail in two of her four subjects.
The syllabus is divided into five subject areas.
Hedid well in every subject.
Subjects of study do, read, study~ do~ is more commonly used with school subjects (butmay also be used with university subjects): She did maths, physics and chemistry at school Study~ is used with both school and university subjects ‘He studied German at school.
Shewent on to study mathematics at university.
She was educated privately and at Pembroke College, where she read classics.
He taught musicata school in Edinburgh.
Other verbs used with SUBJECT can also be used with particular subjects of study: Half the students take geography at A level.
We offer accounting as a subsidiary course.
The genetics lectures are on.
All enguiries should be made to the Department of Architecture, ~graduate, student, undergraduate ‘Some architecture graduates gain further qualifications in specialist fields.
He's an English teacher at Highland Road School, ~professor, (a) professor of~ ‘She's professor of linguistics at the University of Wales.
The study of philosophy helps you to thin critically.
Hegot Asin history andart subject adj.
His illness left him subject to asthmatic attacks.
At this stage theseare proposals and ore still subject to change.
Everyone was entirely subject to the whim of the Sultan.
All the priories were made directly subject to the abbot of Cluny.
The criticisms are purely subjective.
Tuste in art is essentially subjective.
The machine can be totally submerged in water.
The car was submerged under 20fect of water.
Theemperor demanded total submission from his subjects.
They bombed the village into submission.
The judge upheld the deJfendant's submission and quashed his conviction.
Thecompanies have made a joint submission totheminister.
They have submitted plans for our approval.
She submitted her report (o the committee.
He submitted voluntarily to arrest.
They were forced to submit to Bulgarian rule.
She refused to submit to threats.
The needsof the individual are completely subordinated to thoseof the state.
He had an essentially subordinate role.
She was directly subordinate to the president (= reported directly to the president).
The monarch is formally subordinate to Partiament.
Subscribers to the magazine can take advantage of this special offer.
The prize was a lifetime’s subscription to *Newsweck'.
The storm gradually subsided.
Her tears subsided into sniffs.
Operate as The company operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a large French company.
The airline is ‘heavily subsidized by the government.
The help that the government gives the industry amounts to an indirect subsidy.
The level of subsidy given to farmers is to bereduced.
Export subsidies have ‘been reduced by 20%.
The govern- ‘ment cut spending through reductions in state subsidies ta industry.
Most of the population lives at subsist ence level.
They were living barely above the level of subsistence.
Innocuous Even innocuous substances can sometimes register a pasitive result in a drug test.
Some frogs produce very toxic substances in their skin.
Theathletes had taken banned substances to increase their strength.
The real substance of the report was in the third part.
His disappearance has given added substanceto the argument that he stole the money.
The image of him that the ‘media have presented has no substance.
The letters lent substance to the rumaurs.
There's no difference in substance between the two points of view.
Nothing of substance was achieved at the meeting.
Their allegations were without substance.
There's nosubstance in the stors.
Thereuwas little substanceto his claims.
The television is a poor substitute for human companionship.
His teacher acted as afather substitute.
The company produces substitutes for lead in petrol.
There'snosubstitute for hard work.
Her dancing has great subtlety.
She was (00 young tograsp the subtleties of the film.
He uses language with great subtlety.
The middleclass suburbs are growing fast.
For achlld from thesuburbs, atripto the city was a great adventure.
She's renting in ‘some grey suburb of Birmingham.
Many people wark in the centre but live in the suburbs.
He ran through the pedestrian subuway.
The plan succeeded pretty well.
They very nearly succeededin blowing up the pariiament building.
We feel that we have largely succeeded in our aims.
The appeal is unlikely to succeed.
Nocompany can hope to ucceed at eversthing.
She can teach you how to succeed at tennis.
She has stcceeded in a difficult career.
We succeeded in repairing the engine.
He was appointed to succeed Sir Georg Solti s head of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
He was widely tipped to succeed William Hagueas leader of the parts.
The campalgn 1o stop drink-driving ‘had only limited success.
Tie company'sexcellent marketing has resulted in enormous international success.
Initially, the ventureenjoyeda Jair amount of success.
She ‘had little success in getting new customers.
He is keer to ‘notch up yet another success.
Jailed to bring success.
The year-long fight for a pay rise ended in success.
Ife can't guarantee immediate success.
Your contribution was vitalto the success of the concert.
Success didn't come overnight-—she struggled for years before making any money.
Much of his siuccess lies in his skill in handling staff.
The success or failure of the project depends on how committed the managers are.
The operation has a success rate of over 80%.
The company has been aneaf the success storlesof the past decade.
She tried (o persuade them without success.
I've ad some success in getting rid of the weeds.
What are our chances of success?o We're trying to get him to sponsor us, but there’s not much hope of success.
She had worked hard and was confident of success.
The band’s new album has beera runaay success.
The book proved a major commercial success.
Theevent was judgeda success by itsorganizers.
We are sad (0 see Hiroko go, and wish her every success in the future.
Iy, quite, rather, relatively Theoperation was only partial Iysuccessful.
Though a top-rated movie star he has been re.
Keeping his private life privat.
We lost three secretaries in quick succession.
There has been a rise in crime for the second year in successian.
He wanted to hhave a son to secure the succession.
Betty Munn is the manager in succession to Edna Greenan.
He is next in (the) line of succession to the British throne.
He doesn't have an obvious successor as party leader.
She will hand aver to her successor inone year’s time.
Andrew Kirkham will be her successor as Chief Executive.
The new Ministry of Food is the successor 1o the old Department of Agricuiture.
Malnourished children are more likely to succumb?o infctions.
She was noisily sucking up milk througha straw.
She sucked away on her thumb.
Hecutthe orange in half and sucked out the juice.
He sucked at the wound on his hand.
The machine sucks up mud and stones from the bottom of the pond.
Into, on The baby sucked on her bottle.
He threatened to sue the company for negligence.
The water authority was successfully sued over his illness.
This area suffered very badly in the storms.
Thousands of children in the world today suffer needlessly.
Premature babies are more likely to suffer from breathing difficulties in childhood.
She suffors from asthma.
He suffers terribly with migraines.
They were just expected to suffer in silence.
The worst sufferers of the condition tend tolive in highly polluted areas.
The taunts of her schoalmates caused her intense mental suffering.
The western world has contributed to the immense amount of suffering in underdeveloped countries.
These lablets should relieve his suffering for a couple of hours.
His [ife was one of pain and suffering.
Our ‘budget s scarcely sufficient 1o pay peaple, let alone buy any new equipment.
Thesalary proved sufficient for his needs.
Fruit juices contain natural sugars.
He stirred another spaonfulof sugar into his tea.
Most junk food is high in sugar.
Jfor the company's decline.
Shall I tell them you're ill? Alice suggested helpfully.
It seems reasanable to suggest that all life forms an earth share a com: mon origin.
She suggested John as chairman.
Who would you suggest for the job? to He suggested to the com- ‘mittee that they should delay making a decision.
The evidence suggests quite strongly that the fire was caused by an explosion.
The evidence seems (o suggestthat hedid steal themoney.
I've had several helpful suggestions Jrom colleagues.
Ithink we might take up the suggestion of printing the ‘books in Hong Kong.
They dismissed the suggestion that they hadn't worked hard.
He rejected my suggestion as impractical.
We have nated your suggestion and will give it due consideration.
Management welmes practical suggestions on how to improve the facilities.
She let the country amid suggestions that she had stolen from the firm.
I'm not sure what to do with all this 'maney, but I'm apen to suggestions.
There's no scientific basis to the method—it warks by suggestion.
These healers claim to remove the pain by the power of suggestion.
At the slightest suggestion of criticism, he loses his temper.
The results were ‘highly suggestive of malignancy.
He became verydepressed and even got suicidal at ane point.
These policies would prave suicidal for our economy.
Members of the sect committed mass suicide.
Raising taxes before an election would be political suicide.
He died without leaving a suicide note.
He wore his one good suittothe interview.
They won't let you into the restaurant without a suit and tie.
The cavalryworea suitof light armour and carried a shield.
We bought the baby a couple of suits of clothes.
The suit changed to diamonds.
All the cards have to be from the ‘same suit.
You will have to try out the various tennis rackets to find out which one suits you best.
This arrangement suiied me perfectls.
The exercise-with-answerkey format makes the book suitable Jor self studs.
These properties are considered especially suitable for older people.
This holiday is not really suitable for wheelchair users.
There are many other training courses that would be equally suitable.
The walk is suitable for all the famils.
His only possession was a_battered old suitcase of clothes.
The money was smuggled out in a falsebottomed suitcase.
He stuffed a few clothes in a case, grabbed his wallet and Ieft.
She snapped her suitcase shut and stuck on a label.
The sultcase was 00 heavy to lift.
She heaved her case down from the luggage rack.
The uitcase was full of drugs.
We're having a new bathroom suite put in.
She was ideally sulted to the job.
He was not really suited for arm Iife.
It seemed an absurdly high sum to pay for a coat.
For his first book he recelved the princely sum of $100.
The team has raised sub stantial sums for local charities.
He Joined the club two years ago for a record sum.
Ze charity pays a nominal sum to lease the premises.
My wife would receive a guaranteed lump sum in the event of mydeath.
You will have to 20 1o court to recover these sums.
The judge awarded them an undisclosed six figure sum in damages.
Igave him a cheque.
The gangsters offered him a sum equivalent 10 whole year's earnings.
The company got its sums wrong when estimating how many customers ituouldattract.
Calculate the ‘sumof the following figures.
The sum of twoand five ls seven.
The appeat of this charming little town is hard tosum up.
She summed it up as ‘the most brilliant lecture Tveeverattended'.
The research has been usefully summarized inan article by Greenwood.
The results of the survey can be summarized asfollows:.
Details of new titles, with plot summaries, are included in the catalogue.
He has provided a usefulsummary of the main categories.
In summary, his views are out of date.
She decided not to include this incident in her sum mary of theday's cvents.
In summary form The information is shown in summary form in the following tables.
Seville is scorching in high summer.
Indian We had an Indian summer that year, very warm until October.
She seems 10 be enjoying an Indian summer of popularity.
There are two new courses being run in the summer term.
The Pic Long is the highest summit in the region.
The blizzard forced them todelay their summit bid.
We were standing at the very summit of the highest mountoin in Indio.
They reached ‘base camp, 12 000 metres below the summit, on the = The climbers planted flag on the summit.
The 2004 summit will be hosted by Japan.
These measures were decided at a summit in July.
She was duly summoned for an interview from He has been summoned from New York 10 give evt denceat the trial.
He could hardly summon the strength to standup.
Shemanaged to summon up a smile.
She was ready when the summons duly come.
She responded immediately to the sum- ‘mons from the head teacher.
In answer toa summons Hearrived panting inanswer to Blake's summons.
The summons can be served on elther of the partnersin the business.
Her nelghbours took out a sumrmons against her for noisenuisance.
The wintry sun was already low in the sky.
The distant moun tains glowed in the light of the setting sun.
Zhis plant likes a dryish sofl in full sun.
Sunday soaking up the afternoon sun.
You've caught the sun (= become slightly burnt by the sun).
The sun climbed higher in thesky.
Thesun risesin the east.
The sun sets in the west.
It was getting cooler as the sun sank below the horizon.
The sun was up now, and strong.
Just then, a watery sun broke through the clouds.
Thesunwent inand itstarted torain.
Thesun caught her dazzling copper hair.
Thesun glinted on the blades.
Thesun warmed his face.
On children, usea cream with a high sun protection factor.
Don'tsitin the sun 00 long.
The helmets were glinting in the sun.
We've booked a holiday in the sun (= in a place that is warm and sunny).
Her sunglasses were perched on her head.
She observed the goingson from ‘behind her mirrored sunglasses.
Intense, scorching, strong, warm He emerged from the tunnel into blinding sunlight.
In, shimmer in, sparkle in The sea shimmered in the sunlight.
Do ot leave your skin exposed to sunlight for too long.
They emerged from the cinema, blinking in the sunlight.
Sunlight filtered dustily through the slats of the door.
She threw back the shutters and the sunlight streamed in.
Sunlight dapples the grass around us.
Wecameoutinto bright sunlight again.
Into At theend of themouie, the hero ridesoff into the sunset.
The frees were black against the sunset.
It was a cool day with fitful sunshine.
Shesaton the wall, enjoying thespring sunshine.
The town was bathed in spring sunshine.
The race was run in bright sunshine.
She followed usout into thesunshine.
Everyone in the bar was sporting a suntan.
Hespent the mornings on the beach getting @ sunian.
The cuis absolutely superb.
He began tofeel e could cope, on a purely superficial level, at least.
She gave him a look that made words quite superfluous.
The form has to be signed by your immediatesuperior.
She threatened to report theassistant to his supertors.
Idon't seeeither product as superior to the other.
The new prodcts are far superior to the old ones.
They defected a greatly superior Roman army.
The house was altogether superior to the kind of thing most men of Adam’s age could aspire to.
Ina microwave that s vastly superior indesignto all other models to She felt socially superior to mostof her neighbours.
Driving the Jaguar gave him a feeling of total control, effortless superiority.
For a long time France enjoyed overwhelming superiority in this Jield.
The use of the words ‘modern’ and ‘old' is not meant to imply the superiority of one over the other.
Their team has had to bow to Australia’s superiority in recent years.
The settlers remained convinced of their superiority tothe native population.
We have a lot of superstitions about animals.
The topic of birth s riddled with superstition.
Redheaded people have many superstitions attached 1o then.
The children will be closely supervised at all times.
The ‘oot isfullysupervised by trained staff.
An executive officer was appointed to supervise the arrangements.
New staff are trained to work without direct supervision.
The scheme offers only minimal supervision for young offenders.
The head porter is responsible for the superuision and allocation of duties.
He needs (o be kept under strict supervision.
She ‘managed to escape her boss's constant supervision.
The local authority can apply for a supervision order for the child.
Children are not allowed to swim without adequate supervision.
They still require supervision by skilled colleagues.
There was always a harvest supper for the farm workers after the hay and wheat had been cut.
It cun also be eaten as a supper dish with a salad.
Ellie cleared away their supper things.
They invited me round forabiteof supper.
Noteat MEAL (for verbs) supple adj.
He was grudually getting more supDle.
You must exercise your joints to keep them supple.
The farmer adds a supplement to the horse's eed.
You can use these books as supplements to the basic English course.
This document is a supplement to the main report.
If you want ta travel on different day a flight supplement is payable.
We charge a small supplement for this service.
Singlerooms areavallable at a supplement.
Thereisa supplement on rooms with a sea view.
Itis impossible to measure the total supply of money in circulation.
Infinite, limitless, nover-anding, unending He has ar endless supply of corny jokes.
The body needs a fresh supply of vitamin Ceveryday.
Domestic coal supplies were more plentiful in the mid-19505.
Turn off the mains electricity supply.
The formers depend on a casual labour supply at harvest time.
Makesureyou have anadequate supply of brochures.
In, obtain, receive e should lay in a good supply of beer for the parts.
The studio produced a steady supply of good films.
The electricity company disconnected our supply for non-poyment of a bill.
The storm disrupted the town's power supply.
By the endof the winter the supply of grain was severely depleted.
Demand for top-quality programmers exceeds supply, leading 1o extortionatesalaries.
Labour supply did not increase to meet demand.
Food is in shart supply Jollowing the flooding.
There will soon be a shortfull insupply of qualified young people.
The Red Cross flew emergency food supplies into the wer zome.
In, provide (sbsth with) The money raised will provide vitat medicat Supplies torefugeecamps.
Rebel action threatened relief supplies.
Any room where gas is used must be adequately supplied with air.
The water was supplied from an eight-wheeled tanker: to They were accused of supplying arms to the rebels.
He refused to supply the police with information.
He was charged with possession of drugs with intent 10 supply others.
The poll revealed massive support for the proposal.
We would like to thank Edna Hales for her unstinting support over the years.
The government has lost mojority support in the Assembly.
My idea only received lukewarm support from my colleagues.
Thepropasal has the personal support of the president.
The parents of the sufferers get together for mutual support.
She fook her sister with her to the interview for moral support.
The policy has the support of the communiy.
She threw her full support behind him.
She will need a lot of emotional support at this difficult time.
Support came from all sections of the community.
Grow, rise Support for the Liberals has risen to 30 per cent.
He had no support base uithin the party.
In~ofan intense campaign in support of the proposal withiwithout .
The pipeiine is to be built with international support.
Farmers mobllized considerable support against government plans to remove import restrictions, ~among The party wishes to broaden ifs support among professionals.
The president has ex- ‘pressed his support for the project.
The policy has broad support from industry.
Democrats gave the government a brood base of support.
The rebel leader claimed to have received expressions of support from all the neighbouring countries.
Families earning belowa certain amount can claim child support.
The piece of wood under the mattress is to glve my back extra support.
The group is actlvely supported by several Mem.
He has supported the party loyolly for over twenty years.
The soloists were ably supported by the University Singers.
He promised to support me at the meeting.
In Very few countries supported the United States inits action.
These policies were widely supported in the country.
The evidence strongly supparts his claims.
Her parents supported her all through college.
The emperor was deserted by his closest supporters before the end of the war.
Only staluwart supporters of the team stayed to the end of the matck.
The party has not een listening to the concerns of its grass roots supporters.
Both sets of supporters applouded the fontostic goal.
The opposition leader addressed a rally of 50 000 supporters.
Allthe hospitalstaff were wonderfully supportive.
We are totally supportive of this idea.
They wereall extremely supportive to me.
This combination af qualities s generally supposed fobeextremely rare.
Thereis noreasonto suppose she’s ying.
It is a reosonable supposition that many mothers would welcome the offer of part-time work.
Le's work on the supposition thal she meant no offence.
You are correct in your suppositions about the source of his wealth.
She was charged on the supposition that she had colluded with her husband in the murders.
The medication effectively suppressed the poin.
This information had been deliberately suppressed.
He could hardly suppress his surDrise.
The disloyal thought was instantly suppressed.
Shewas unable to suppress a giggle.
Her foce was chorged with barely suppressed anger.
He was injured in the bloody suppression of the uprising.
Coal gave the region industrial supremacy.
Ic markets ~over By the end of the war, the prince had established total supremacy over all his rivals.
There is a surcharge for excess baggage.
There is a 2% surcharge on credit card users.
You don't seem very sure to me.
Make sure no one finds out about this.
To make doubly sure they would not be disturbed she turned the key in the lock.
I'm not altogether sure he would appreclateyour efforts.
Poitz was confident of taking the Ameri.
You'd better be completely sure of your facts.
The children splashed about in the surf.
The ball rolled onto the frozen surface of the pond.
Visible light from the sun passes through the at- ‘mosphere to the earth's surface.
The captain brought the submarine to the surface.
The investigation barely scratched the surface of the city's drug problem.
Surface water madedriving conditions hazardous.
The ring slowly sank beneath the surface of the mud pool.
Agurative) She gives the impression of being rather conventional, but under the surJace sheis wildly eccentric.
Cracks begarn toappear in the surface of theearth.
On the Surface his words were funny, but I detected quite a lot of anger behind them.
His initial surge of euphoria was quickly followed by dismay.
She felt a fresh surge of anger when he denied lying.
He experienced that familiar surgeof excitement.
The storm surge caused widespread flooding.
Police struggled 1o control the sudden surge forward by the demonstrators.
Heis determined toqualify asa surgeon.
Surgeons removed her right leg above the Knee.
Many people are terrified at the thought of the surgeon’s knife.
One of his specialities is minimally invasive surgers.
They discussed whether patients should have to pay for all elective surgery.
She had minor surgery on her knee.
He has been performing heart surgers for tenyears.
She felt weak for six months after undergoing major abdominal surgery.
After the accident, she needed extensive plastic surgery to her face.
We only have a morning surgery.
He ‘hoids surgery from 10a.
Tl have togoto the surgery topick up the prescription.
Dr Smith Isn't in the surgery today.
The teacher addresses the students by their surnames.
On marriage most women st take their husband's surname.
In The second half of the match comfortably surpassed thefirst in entertainment value.
The pension fund is tn surplus.
After the initial surprise Igot to liketheplace.
His eyebrows rosein mock surprise.
The Egyptian team relied on the elementaf surprise to defeat their stronger opponents.
Hefelgned surprise when I went up and said hello.
She was quick to hide her surprise.
The president's remarks caused surpriseand embarrassment.
Walk twenty miles!" repeated the old man in surprise.
She showed no surprise at the news.
Johnson sprung a surprise by beating the favourite in the first round.
Your mother's in for a bit of a surprise when she gets home.
The storm took us completely by surprise.
It was a complete surprisefor me.
The outcome did not surprisemeatall.
They wanted tosurprise their mother and get the ‘breakfast ready.
Her father didn't seem at all surprised.
She looked faintly surprised at my remark.
He was pleasantly sur- ‘prisedto discover that he was no longer afraid.
He sounded surprised at this request, by She appeared genuinely surprised by this gesture of affection.
Itis hardly surprising that rumours continte to circulate.
The allied commander demanded their immediate and unconditional surrender.
The rebels hoisted the white flag of surrender: In (mock) surrender He raised his ‘hands in mock surrender.
After three weeks under siege they surrendered completely.
He surrendered voluntarily to his enemies.
Thedictator surrendered power to Parliamer.
He used the Internet as a surrogate for contactwith real people.
Will found himself immediately surrounded by screaming funs.
With They surrounded the building with tanks ‘and armoured vehicles.
The new ‘hotel blends perfectly with the immediate surroundings.
French cutsine served amid elegantsurroundingsin .
Wespent the afternoon relaxing in the beautiful surroundings of my parents’ home.
The suspects are under police surveillance.
The country's borders are kept under constant surveillance.
The army carried out covert surveillance of the building for several months.
The council undertook a sample survey of primary schools in the county.
Thecharitydid a survey of people’s attitudes to thedisabled.
The survey covered 74 species.
According fo the survey, ‘many young adults have experimented with drugs of some kind.
Her green eves surveed him coolly.
The study showed improved survival of patients using thedrug.
Chemotherapy can prolang survival in concer potients.
The arrival of this South American predator threatened the survival of native speces.
Adaptability is essential to survival in a changing environment.
Kit The expedition members carried flares in thelr survival kit.
For the poorest people, life was merely a matter of survival.
Doctors gave him only a 50% chance of survival.
He lacked the common instinct for survival.
The main threat to the survival of these creatures comes from their loss of ‘habitat.
The frescoes have survived remarkably well.
Seedlings survive better in stony soil.
The islanders could barely survive without an ex.
The prime minister narrowly survived a leadership challenge.
Only one copy of the book still survives.
Doctars did not expect him (o survive the night.
She cannot hope to survive long in power.
Once diagnosed with lung cancer; a patient s lucky to survive for five years.
Will she surviveas party leader?from Very little has survlved from this period of histors.
Very few of the children survived into adult life.
They survived on roots and berries.
She survived through two world wars.
Few buildings survived the war intact.
Like all great survivors, she has a ruthless streak.
This grand park is a rare survivor from the eighteenth century.
The navy helped pick up the survivors.
The emer- ‘gency services searched all night for crash survivors.
The operation had left her susceptible to infection.
Somedogs are thought to be genetically susceptibleto the disease.
She has been identified as the prime suspect.
The police have several suspects.
Thearmsy rounded up all the usual terrorist suspecs.
The letter makes him a possible suspect for ‘her murder.
In Two men were arrested as suspects in the bombing.
Irather suspect they were trying to get rid of me.
These revelations only prove what I suspected all along.
Sylvia had not been telling the truth.
It waswidely suspected thatthe cadlets had been acting on orders.
Hewas wrongly suspected of the crime.
Tre theory is rendered suspect by its reliance on now discredited sources.
Some of the evidence was deeply suspect.
Fundfor the new building has been temporarily suspended.
The government has decided to suspendproduction at the country's biggest lead plant.
The EU should ‘have the power (o suspend subsidy payments to farmers ‘who pollute the enviranment.
Don’t ook at the end of the book yet—you'll break the suspense.
She couldr’t bear the suspense a moment longer.
Idon't get the results till next week, and the suspense s killing me.
They were kept in suspense aboul their possibility of joining the expedition for severalweeks.
Another caution will result in his automatic suspension from the final.
Impose, order A fourday suspension was imposed on.
He incurred a suspension on reduced pay.
The athlete could Jfacea lengthy period of suspension if found guilty.
There isstrong suspicion on both sldes that information s being witheld.
My worst suspicians were realized when I received my redundancy natice.
Our suspicions turnedout to be groundless.
He fell under suspicion of taxevasion.
Purked vehicles that arouse suspiclon should be reported to the police.
She confided her suspicions to no one but her diar.
She was anxious to allay any suspicion that she had married for money.
The suspicion exists that Harries s stealing money from the company safe.
Strong suspicion attached tothe victim’s boy/riend.
They thought the head teacher was beyond suspicion.
Suspicions against the former prime minister remain.
The finger of suspicion pointed to Gilbert Cash, a close friend of the victim.
The police must have reasonable grounds for suspicion before they can get a search warrant.
Boys were an immediate obJect of suspicion to her: under a cloud of suspicion He ‘ended his athletics career under a cloud of suspicion when ‘herefused to takea drugtest.
They viewed the new scheme with great suspicion.
His mouth quivered in the suspicion of a smile.
Something about her smilemade him suspicious.
She remained deeply suspicious of computers.
Fis voice grew Jaintly suspicious.
They were somewhat suspicious about her past.
Shewas highly suspicious of his motives.
Police are treating both fires as suspicious.
Inform the police immediately If you sée anything suspicious.
The oil was so badly eroded it could no longer sustain crop praduction.
She accidentally swallowed a glass bead.
Liquid food may be more easily swallowed.
She swallowed down her breakJastina hurry.
Most snakes swallow their prey whole.
She swallowed convulsively, determired not cry.
He swallowed back the lump in his throat.
She had to swallow hard ‘before she could speak.
The football managers agreed on swap deals involuing their star players.
The stage swayed alarmingly under their weight.
The cow's udder swayed from side to side as she walkedalong.
Thecurtains swayed gently in the breeze.
Hewill not easily be suwayed by argument.
He heard her swear under her breath.
He swore loudly at her and left.
He swore solemnly that he would never hit her again.
Jwould be prepared to swear on oath that they didn't see me.
He made ‘her swear on the Bible that she wouldn’t leave him.
I'swear by Almighty God to tell the truth.
We were all sworn to secrecy about the plan.
That's one of the strongest swear words in Spanish.
He ‘mouthed swear word at me (hrough the windouw.
My shirtstuck to the clammy sweat on my back.
The room smelled of stale sweat.
We worked up a good sweat carrying the boxes outside.
She broke out in a cold sweat when she saw the spider.
In, be beaded/streaming with, be dripping (with), be slipperyiwet with, glisten with His forehead was dripping sweat.
The workmen were streaming with sweat.
He mopped the sweatfrom his brow.
His hands trembled and sweat broke out all over his body.
Sweat stood out on his shoulders.
Sweat beaded her face.
Sweat was running down his back.
In 8~ Shewokeup ina cold sweat.
He's trying tosweatoff @ few pounds in the gym.
The heat was making us sweat.
We were sweating profusely from the exertion of moving the furniture.
He awoke with a pounding heart, sweating with feor: * PHRASES sweat buckets, sweat like a pig (both infor- ‘mab After two hours of digging he was sweating likea pis.
Special page at CLOTHES sweaty adj.
Her forehead was sweaty from the pain she was in.
The house overlooks the great sweep of the St Lawrence river.
He dismissed his assistant with a grandiose sweep of ‘hand.
Her eyes made a comprehensive sweep of the room.
The upward sweep of her ‘hair washeld in place by acomb.
We made a wide sweep south to the River Dee.
Thousands of jobs were lost in one broad sweep.
Tke air smelled sweetand clean.
She was really sweet tome.
She ‘smiled with saccharine sweetness.
The Atlantic swell surged up under them.
In althe ~ The trawler rolled wildly in the heavy swell.
The boat rose and fell with the swell.
His sprained ankle hod swollen badly.
Her feet swelled up after the long walk to the topof the hill.
His legs had swollen with the heat.
There is @ marked swelling of the lymph nodes.
The car made a sudden swerveto the laft.
The car veered out of control and swerved across the road.
The vehicle swerved off the road.
The car suerved ‘sharply toavoid the bus.
He made a remarkably swift recovery.
She had a quick swig of water and then set off again.
Mgo for, have, take She got up eariy and went for a swim.
We swam out to the boat.
She swam ‘back towards the shore.
She suffers from severe mood swings.
Hetook a wild swing at the ball.
Some kids were playing on theswings.
She lashed out, her arm swinging wildly.
Ium swung slowly backwards and forwards.
Tcould see him swinging from the branch of alargetree.
The road suung sharply round.
Hearing a sarcastic note in his voice, sheswung around toface him.
She let the door swing shut behind her.
She swung down from the tree in one easy movement.
Into He swung up into the saddle and rode off towards Niccold swung towards her.
The balance of ‘power swung wildly from one party to the other.
Opinion swung heavily to the lef.
Her mood could swing ropidly from gloom toexhilaration.
She took a playful swipe at her brother.
Thearticle takes a side swipe at the teachers.
The mains switch is in the cupboard under the stalrs.
We fitted dimmer switches in all the bedrooms.
Someone threw a switch and theelectricity went off.
This switch controls the heating system.
The light operates by time switch.
The heater is on a timer switch.
The pilot reached across to the huge bank of switcheson his right and flicked a couple.
The team’s manager made a shrewd factical switch in defence.
There will be no overnight switch away from old voting habits.
My mind suddenly switched back to my conversation with Jeremy.
He switched his allegiance from the British to the French.
We asked them {f they would switch places with us.
The BBC switchboard was jammed with furious calls.
Al calls must pass through the switchboard.
Her legs had got swollen from standing up atl day.
His ankle is bruised and quite badly swollen.
Her face was still horribly swollen.
Her eyes were all red and swolLen fromcrying.
An eagle swooped low over the trees.
Customs officers swooped on several houses last night looking for drugs.
The potential financial boost is a double-edged sword (= has advantages and diszdvantages).
Put the stress on the second sytlable.
She split the word up into syllables so that he could have a go at spelling it.
Normally, the stress falls on the first syllable of a word.
You Il have to spell it ot to him, using words of one sytlable (= explain it in simple language).
The courses do not follow the syllabus of any particular examination board.
Several schools in Britain already teach the baccalaureate syllabus.
Students do different syllabuses according to their abilits.
There i litcle tirme (o depart from the syllabus.
Ler's include that in this year's syliabus.
Is geometry on the GCSE syllabus? under althe ~ This period of history was not examined under the old syllabus.
Thecompany car is an outward symbol of the employee’s status.
The villagers took fertitity symbols into the fields to ensure a good harvest.
He is not most people’s idea of asexsymbol.
Eges are seen as the symbol of new life.
All GM products corry an identifying symbol.
Chinese, linguistic, mathematical, musical, phonemic, phonetic, punctuation A list of Pphonetic symbols is given in the front of thedictionary.
Tie coin bearsa Jewish symbol.
The bottle had a skull and cross- ‘bones symbolon it.
Hotels that show this symboloffer activities for children.
Always look out for the special ABTA symbol at your travel agent’s.
You can use your tokens wherever you see this symbol.
Oisthe chemical symbolfor oxygen.
His reJfusal to accept the honour was seen as highly symbolic.
This is a gruesome ‘and heavily symbolic tale.
The role of monarch s apurely symbolicone.
These two objects are symbolic of Uife and death.
Sound symbolism means that we can often guess the meardng of a word from its sound.
Christian churches are tillfull of pogan symbolism.
Interpret, understand symmetrical adj.
Theplan of the building is broadly symmetrical.
The trees break thesymmetry of the painting.
He sounded genuinely sympathetic.
She made suitably sympathetic noises down the phone.
They were extremely sympathetic to my plight.
The government is broadly sympathetic to our ideas.
It is ‘hard not to sympathize with her dilemma.
Wesympathized with the bereaved family.
She seemed to Jfeel some sympathy for the patients.
She expressed her deepest sympathy for him.
She says I haven't given her enough sympathy.
We extend our sympathy to the fomilies of the victims.
Their plight aroused considerable public sympathy.
He didn't get ‘much sympathy from anyone.
Our deepest sympathy goes out 1o his wife and family.
My sym pathy lies with his wife.
In~with Nurses come out on strike in sympathy with the doctors.
Shemarried him more outof sympathy than love.
Desmond esed her anguished foce with sympathy.
He has a total lack of sympathy for young peaple.
The government showed sympathy to their couse.
He acted with some sympathy towards his victim.
She had every sympothy with him.
Beethoven's 5th, Dvorsk's 7th, etc.
These virus infections display obvious visual_symptoms.
She had all the classic symptoms of the disorder.
Not all carriers of the disease develop symptoms.
Cigarettes can aggravatethe symploms of a cold.
He had been ignoring the symptoms for years.
I'm ina lottery syndicate at work.
This phenomenon has become knoun as the ‘Californian syndrome’.
This syndromemostly affects women in their forties.
Until the late eighteenth century, ‘opera’ was ‘almast synonymous with Italian opero.
The doctor drewa doseof morphia inta the syringe.
The governar referred 10 a prison system that was bankrupt of compassion.
The law applies to schools within the state systern.
They are all part of the corrupt system we need to change.
Ske spent her yeors at school fighting the system.
It snat your fault—blame the system.
Every political system rests on certain fundamentals.
This system allows you to study at your own speed.
In althe~atanother point in the transportsystem under afthe ~ Under the new system, al children will be ‘monitored byasenior socialworker.
For this month only, installing the system is free.
The airconditioning system failed.
Returning to work after a lang break can bea terribleshock to the system.
Just reboot thesystem andtryagain.
The system runs on this workstation.
The entire computer system wentdown.
Wearranged theparty foodona tres1le table in the garden.
We found an empty table at the back of the restaurant.
She often does her homework at the kitchen table.
We never discuss politics at the breakfas! table.
They spent hours around the negotiating table.
We turned the box upside down anduseditasa makeshift table.
They were all five of ther sitting round the Kitchen table.
He lef the table ina hurry.
Please lay the table for six.
You clear the table and I'll wash thedishes.
We booked a table in our favouriterestaurant for 8 pm.
She leaned acruss the table towards him.
We gathered round the table to hear his news.
She put the vase on the table.
They flirted over the dinner tabie.
The potata rolled under the table.
My father aluways sits at the head of the table.
All parties tack part in the round table discussions on the peace process.
The league table shouws the Danish team in first place with eight points.
See Table XI1for population figures.
He showed the price fluctuations in statistical table.
United are second in the lable.
The team will be lucky to finish the season mid-{able.
Ecstasy, paracetamol, saccharin, sleeping, vitamin, etc.
In tablet form The drug is now available in tabletand capsule form.
He believes that the tabloid press has behaved disgracefully.
Sex is considered taboo as a topic for discussion.
The subject of death was strictly taboo in thelr society.
Such work wastaboo to women.
New research is taking a different tack.
The interviewer decided to try anather tack.
She suddenly changed tack, taking him by surprise.
The yacht suung to the opposite tack.
Their captain was sent off for @ high tackle on Coaper.
Only alastditch tackle by Song prevented Raul from scoring.
He was booked for a tackle from behind on Morris.
She lost the ball ina tackle.
The drugs problem has to be tackled head-on.
With The problem is being tackled with a range of ‘measures.
He can run fastand tackle hard.
The situation called for considerable tact.
Employees are trained to show tact and pa.
With~ The incident should have been handled withmare tact by the police.
Their host, who was the soul of tact, never mentioned the incident again.
Some players see injuring their opponent as a legitimate tactic.
Children are adept ot delaying tactics.
The coach was criticized for his negative tactics.
She decided on a stalling tactic.
They were desperate enough totry ‘shock tactics.
They would do well to switch tactics.
Longer races de- ‘mand differenttactics.
Idantity, name, price The baby had a plastic name tag on its ankle.
Despite a price tag of £100 000, the car sold was sold in two days.
I'still have to put gift tags on all the presents.
This designer suitcarriesa pricetag of £2 000.
The president made ‘several Jokes in an attempt to shake off his ‘humouriess' tag.
Thedog wagged is tail furiously.
The dog ran out with itstail wagging madls.
The plane’s tail section had brokenaff.
Traffic which used to be nose to tail now flows freely.
We identify your needs, and tailor your training accordingly.
Jfirms to The account offered by the bank will be tailored exactly to your needs.
She to0k the news of her father's deathvery badly.
Harry took his rejection Philasophicalls.
He tookwhat Isaidas acriticism.
They won't take kindly to being ordered about.
The consortium won a fierce takeover battlefor theengineering group.
Store managers are predicting record takings this Christmas.
The shop's new look has boosted its takings considerably.
Box office takingsareup by 40% on last year.
In~ She was losing about £100a week in takings.
She was tired of hearing the same dreary tale of drunkenness and violence.
She regaled s with tales of her wild youth.
Each of the survivors had terribletale totell.
God-given, inborn, innate, natural, raw Hard work is important, but it is no substitute for raw talert.
The company fs always looking out for new talent.
The lad has undoubted tatent.
The banquet gave the chef a chance to flaunt his talents.
After making her name as asinger; she turned her talents to acting.
She has a keer eye for spoting talent.
United haveunearthed a real talent in this young deJfender.
The theatre visits schools to tap young talent.
His parents accused him of wasting his talents and abilities.
Her talents lay in organization.
He is a violinist of exceptional talent.
You have a natural talent for storytelting.
There is wealth of talent outthere in our schools.
Hollywood directors have a marvellous pool ofacting talent to drau from.
Some of these young musicians are hugely talented.
Iy about unimportant things) He was never very good at making small talk with her parents.
There was excited tatk of emigrating to America.
The chairman's boasis about future profits wos just cheap talk.
What all the fine talk came down to was ‘hard cash.
Tolk turned to money and tempers began tofray.
You think if's just talk?" No, I think if's true.
For all the talk of bringing their children up the same, the boys ended up never doing any of the cooking.
The two governments held secret talks on the nuclear threat.
The union has broken off talks with the management.
Tatks were scheduled for Rome the following month.
The peace talks will take place in Calro.
The talks centred on bilaterol trade.
Talks produced agreement on an end to the occupation.
The talks remain deadlocked over spending plans.
The talks foundered on the issue of compensation.
The agreement wos concluded during talks in Beljing.
He is currently in tatks with t1o foot ball clubs.
The detegation arrived Jfor talks with their government.
She gave a very entertaining talk entitled "My life and hard times'.
She talked quite freely about her work.
He had talked vagueIy of going to wark abroad.
Let's talk sensibly about this.
The police questioned him for four hours, trying to make him talk.
Just shut upand letme talk for a minute.
We aften talked of the war.
Tl talk to John this after- ‘noon.
I've talked with him on the telephone.
Iy, quite, rather She s quite tail for her age.
Ifound office work very tame after armsy life.
Tous it was all pretty tame stuf.
Show off your tan inihis liitle white 1op.
His teeth were a gleaming flash of whiteagainst his tan.
He got into a tangle with his budget figures.
The legal tangle was never really unravelled.
My hair had got all tangled.
Your hair looksa bit tangled.
My legs got hopelessly tangled in the rape.
Puta littlefish food into the tank.
Tanks rolled in toend the siege.
The tanker ran aground in heavy seas and is breaking up on the rocks.
His blue eyes glittered in his deeply tanned face.
He threwa tantrum on theschool bus.
Turn the tap clockuise.
Someone has left the tap running.
Tlie pub has two sorts of beer on tap (= ina barrel with a tap on it).
We have this sort of informationon tap (= available Lo be used at any time).
There was aittle tap at the door.
She tapped her fingers gently an the table.
She tapped the ice with @ stick.
The data Is stored on the magnetic tape.
Police are examining the incident, which was captured on tape.
T've got the whole concertor tape.
The court heard that Ellis sold pirated tapes of Hollywood blockbusters.
The singer was miming (o a pre-recorded tape.
Someone fiad deliberately erased the tapes.
The tape contained damning evidence.
Fit the carpet using double-sided tape.
Use a steel tape measure 1o measure the dimensions of the room.
The wires cre teped firmly together.
The box wasall taped up.
She had taped a note to the ridge door.
The prime minister is @ favourite targetof comedians.
The stationary trucks weresitting targets for the enemy planes.
The bomb reached its intended target ten seconds luter.
The flare overshot its target and set light to hotel.
The missile is aimed specifically to destroy military torgess.
The radar beam can track a number of targets almost simultaneously.
The missile veered way off target and landed in the sea.
The archers were settingup their targets.
The boys used an old tree stump s target.
Patton was justoff terget with header.
His first shot was bang on target.
The shot went widedf thetarget.
She has always set herself very high targets.
Managers must set targets that are realistic.
The company pays bonuses to workers who exceed production targess.
Sales so fur this vear cre 20% above target.
These figures are way off target.
We are still right on target.
Many wage settlements reached were over the original farget of 4%.
We are working towards a target of twenty carsc week.
Children ure deliberately targeted.
The products are targeted at young people.
This hospital is targeted for additional funding.
Tex cuts should be targeted on the poor: towards We target our services towards specific groups of people.
British industry was sheltered from foreign competition by Drotective tariffs.
Thecgreement fixed triffsfor Joreign goods coming into Jepan at 5%.
They seta tariff of 36 % on British woal cloth.
The mirror had tarnished quite badly.
Thatdress mckes her look like atart.
He had called her a cheap litle art.
Translating the letter was no easy tesk.
The primary task of the chair is to ensure the meeting runs smoothly.
Nobody was keen (0 take on such a thankless task.
She fuiled to complete the task that she had been set.
She was charged with the important task of telling the children.
His thick fingers were not well suited to the task.
The unenviable tosk of telling my parens fell to the head teacher.
The team have no illusions about the size of the task confronting them.
In one of the Sfirsttosks in langucge learning PHRASES the task ahead J¥e need to think realistically about the (osk ahead.
We should stop chatting and get back to the tosk in hend.
The government has set up a special task forceon health carereform.
You need to use Jfresh herbs toget theauthentic Italian taste.
The soup had a very salty taste.
The drink left a bitter taste in his mouth.
The whole business left a nasty taste in my mouth.
She savoured the taste of thechampagne.
That job gave me my first real taste of teaching.
Have a taste of this cake.
This was her first tastef success.
Thenewappraisal scheme is only a taste of things to come.
Art is an acquired taste—no one is born knowing that_ Michelangelo is wonderful.
They havea taste for adventure.
You obviously share her taste in reading.
I've lost my taste for travelling.
Now he is retired he has time ta indulge his tastes for writing and politics.
It all depends on where your tastes lie.
Lifestyles differ and tastes vary.
The theatre s 100 modern for my faste.
Add salt and pepper to taste.
People with a taste for complex plots will enjoy this book.
What type of bi: cycle you should buy is very much a matter of personal taste.
Her work is executed with impeccable taste.
The house reflected his taste.
The designer has exercised good taste in her useof different fants.
That foke was in very poor taste.
The room had been decarated with great taste.
She has terrible taste inclothing.
Contemporary arbiters of tastedismissed his paintings asrubbish.
The love scenes are all done in the best possible taste.
The remark showed a deplorable lack of taste.
The film was judged to offend against standards of public taste and decency.
The water tasted strongly of chemicals.
The fish tasted faintly of garlic.
The fruit tasted rather like mango.
Mostaf the furniture was quite tasteful.
Her marriage now lay in tatters.
Everyuwhere wallpaper hung in tatters.
Her clothes were intatters.
With their plansnow in tatters, they gave up.
She's having a tattoo done on her leg.
His arms were covered in tottoas.
He ‘had to endure the racist tawnts of the crow.
Their taunts stung him into his best performance for the team yet.
Running away?'he taunted softly.
Some of the girls taunted her about her weight.
The other children taunted him with nick- ‘names.
Her body went as fout as @ bowstring.
His skin was stretched taut over his cheekbones.
Try to keep the lead taut, as it will help your puppy to learn.
The tax office demanded £30 000 in back taxes.
Direct taxes could only be levied with the consent of Parliament.
The government may put an indirect tax on books.
Your employer will deduct the tax Jor you.
Claimsfor expenses can be set off against tax.
She was charged withconspiracy to evade taxes.
Tuxes look set (o rise again.
She owes the taxman £10000.
Trie tax year begins in April.
Her salary puts her in the highest tax band.
Incentive, perks, rebate, refund, relief There are tax advantages to working freelance.
His tax affairs are under investigation by the police.
Her accountant was good at exploiting tax loopholes.
He gave the Porsche to his mother as a tax dodge.
She is living as a tax exile in Monaco.
The is land is a popular tax haven for the very rich.
By broadening the tax base (= making more people pay tax) the chancellor could raise more revenes.
Profits after tax were £262 000 in~ Collectively, smokers pay aver £15 000 a day in tax.
Many self-employed peaple are heavily taxed.
Drinks would be toxed according to their alcoholic strength.
You will be taxed on allyour income.
Where payments exceed these limits they becomefully taxable.
If the government raises direct taxation, it will lose votes.
Any profits made are totally exempt from taxation.
The lass before taxation was $2.
The hospital was funded from taxation.
The poll tax was a very unpopular form of taxation.
They were treated as a married couple for taxation purpases.
I'll get my secretary to call you a taxi.
Ve had some difficulty finding a tax.
We caught a taxi to the airport.
There wasnothing intellectually taxing about the course.
There's some fresh (= just made) tea in the pot.
Til have tea—uwhite, no sugar, please.
She sipped her hot tea slowly.
Il make you some tea.
I'll bring youacupof tea in.
John rushed around dispensing tea andcakes to everyone.
You haven't let the tea brew long enaugh.
Lady comes round the office with a tea trolley in the afternoon.
Do you take sugar in your tea? PHRASES tea and coffee, tea and biscuits/cake/ cakes/sandwiches/sconos, tea and sympathy e tried to alleviate their disappointment by inviting them in for tea and sympathy tea for two *Tea for tuwd', said Mary, ‘and a slice of your delicious chocolate cake.
Would you like tea or coffee? tea-maki rooms have tea-making fucilities.
He stores his books ina tea chest.
She teaches English to Polish students.
English, history, maths, music, PE, woodwork, etc.
She's been accepted at Bath Teacher Training College.
He is chairman of the Parent Teacher Assaciation.
English, language, music, etc.
He's going go into teaching.
She used puppets as teaching aids.
Write each teaching point an the whiteboord.
Applicants must hold a recognized teaching qualification.
Mr Murphy retired at theend of @ 30.
You have to dosix weeks teaching practiceas partof thecourse.
They have left the teaching profession, demoralized and undersalued.
Ioad, responsibilities, role Lecturers who have heavy teaching loads.
Work experience is integrated into the leaching programme.
The teaching year runs from October © May.
Critics say that these tests waste teaching time.
In=I've been in teaching for ten years.
Hefollowed the teachings of the Koran on this subject.
The England manager has chosen his dream team for the World Cup.
Spain are fielding a threeman team in this race.
I'm playing for the first team this week.
Cole has been selected Jor the team to meet lialy next week.
You didn't make the team, I'mafraid.
There are six teams taking part.
Our team lost the final.
He apologized fo his ieammates for his mistake.
The monager gives his team talks in English.
She's in the team for the World Championships.
Willing volunteers Jformed teamsof helpers tocarry everything in.
She has recently joined our sales team.
The fecm consisted of six investigators and fwo secretaries.
It took a tremendous team effart to finish the project on time.
Thereare 20 peaple in the team.
There were ongry tears in Lily's eyes.
Her eyes were blinded by scolding tears.
They weep crocodile tears for the poor and disadvantaged but are basically hoppy with things as they are.
His eyes were bright with unshed tears.
She wiped tear from her eye.
He had to Jfight back tears of frustration.
She broke down in tears in court.
His father’s angry shouting reduced the little boy to tears.
His eyes filled with sudden tears.
Into/to your eyes, start, well (up) Her tears brimmed over and fell on her cheek.
He could never read the letter without tears coming 1o his eyes.
Asingle tear rolled slowly down her cheek.
Tears stood in Oliver’s eyes.
Shefelt tears pricking her eyelids.
He came to me in tears.
She tried tosmile through her tears.
He shed no tearsfor hislostyouth.
It brings tears to your eyesto see thechildren hoving such fun.
More than once I came near to tears.
We were in floods of tears at the end of the film.
Thereare times when suffering may be too deep for tears.
This sheet hasa tear in it.
His clothes were badly torn.
Careful—the fabric tears very eastls.
The storm nearly tore the roaf off.
Thedogs tore the fox apart.
She tore the label off the suitcase.
She tore her skirt on a nail.
Several pages had been torn outof the book.
She fore herself free.
One error and he would have been torn loose and hurled overboard by the squalling wind.
She tore thepiece of paper in half tear sb limb from limb He threatened to tear me limb from limb.
She tore the letter open.
She sounded angry and tearful.
He suddenly became very tearJul.
Defeat left her tearful, pale and drained.
Ifelt quite emotional —almost tearJul.
They teased her mercilessly with remarksabout her weight.
The conversation was getting a bittechnical for me, so1 left them to it.
This is a purely technical problem.
Into Idon’t want to go into all the technicalities just now.
Zhe court wasforced to release him on a fechnicality.
He works as a sound techniclan ina recording studio.
She needs to work on her interview technique if she's going to get a job.
He has an ingenious technique for dealing with problems of that sort.
On the walls [ applied the same technique as I had used for the ceiling.
The technique was pioneered in Californio.
Modern freezing techniques enable the chickens to be stored for weeks.
In They learn basic techniques in selfdefence.
We now have the technologies to transplant limbs.
The company is investing heavityin new technologes.
Telecommunications technology is developing ast.
This technology enables computers {o read handuwriting.
Her visits were starting t0 get @ bi tedious.
He found committee meetings extremely tedious.
He didn't want to share a room with his brother once he reached his teens.
His parents divorced during his teens.
All my children are in their teens.
She’s had skin problems since her teens.
The office telephones were all out of order.
Dor't pester me now-—I'm on the telephone.
Il have to come round to the ‘house.
Hang on—I'll Just get the telepkonz.
She put down the telephone and burst into tears.
I've been trying to phone him all day—he must have left his telephone off the hook.
The waiter came to tellme I was wanted on the telephone.
The telephone was ringing furiously.
The telephone shrilled into the silence.
She is in telephone contact with headquarters.
The charity has set up a 24-hour telephone helpline.
CanIget in touch by telephone? on the~ She Sounded very distant on.
Sheset up her telescope on the balcony.
He feltas if he were seeing things through the wrong end of a telescope.
Millions watched the events on live television.
The children watched television for most of the evening.
The state television screened pictures of the rial.
She recalled her first television appearance forty years ago.
The Olympics receive extensive television coverage.
She works in television.
He ‘spends hours in front of the television every night.
We were watching therews on television.
Inever told him about the money.
No one ‘had told her of the dangers.
He told the story to all his Sriends.
Calm down, he told her firmly.
Tonly just managed to keep my temper with him.
She loses her temper at the drop of a hat (= ‘without good reason).
Tempers flared as the trafJicjam became worse.
She stormed out of the room ina temper.
Peter's comments were responsiblefor her illtemper.
She resained her good temper aftera chat.
He doesn't have the right temperament Jfor the job.
She was fiery by temperament.
Dplays of temperament (= he often behaved in an emotional way).
Actors have the reputation of being highly temperamental.
Yesterday the town reached its highest ever February temperature.
The increase in the mean global temperature will be about 0.
Some places had temperatures in the forties during the heat wave.
She's running a temperature.
The nurse produced a thermometer and took my temperature.
They used ice packs to bring down her temperature.
He's in bed with a temperature of 102.
In althe~ They went 10 pray in the temple.
He's greying at fhe femples.
There was a throbbing in her temples.
They soon adapted to the tempoof life on the island.
They took the last movement at an unusually slow tempo.
Charlotte was tempted into parting with £20 Jfor the painting.
Did you ever feel tempted (o cheat? be seriouslyiseverely/sorely/very tempted She was sorely tempted tothrow the wine in his face.
The tenaricy is held in Joint names.
The land was held on a yearly tenancy.
The club occupies the land under a protected tenancy.
The property is currentIy occupied by a lfe tenant.
She lovingly tended her lttle garden.
The civil war reinforced the centrifugal tendencies at work within the economy.
Hedisplayed artistic tendencies at an early age.
Thereis a tendency for form sizes to increase.
The tendency on the part of the children is to blame their parents for everything.
Industry showed a tendency towards increasingly centralized cdministration.
The government invited tendersfor a project to computerize the soctal security system.
The bullding of the new school will go out to tender.
Theproperty s to besold by tender: tender ad.
Hefelt tender and loving towards her.
Boil the potatoes in salted water until just tender.
Hefelt a brief wave of tenderness towards his old teacher.
She spoke with loving tenderness.
Sheelt great tenderness for him.
She is a popular figure on the international tennis circult.
We persuaded Jake (o sing tenor (- sing the tenor part).
Three celebrated tenors sang at the president's inauguration.
The whole tenor of the meeting was very positive.
Have' Is the auxiliary verb used to form perfect tenses.
In the sentence 'I stroked the caf’, ‘stroked" s in thepast tense.
Thesituation grew increasingly tense.
There's no point in getting tense about the situation.
He suffers from nervous tension.
The hat bath eased the tensian in his bad.
Laughier can beagreat release af tensian.
Harses are very sensitive tasignsof tension in humans.
Mare palice have been sen ta areas of high palitical tensian.
She often used humaur ta defuse tensian n meetings.
The tension amang the audience was palpable.
The redundancies caused greater tensians within the compans.
There has been increased tension aver the border incident.
Maney was always @ saurce of tension between her parents.
This ald racket needs its string tensian adjusted.
In~ The metal is weak in tension.
Stay clear of cables which are under tensian.
The sudden tensianan the line told me I had hooked afish.
They Ditched their tent in a little clearing in the woad.
She had a lang tenure of affice.
He achieved a lat during his short tenure.
The tenants have security af tenure.
She Aas been ‘granted tenureat Leeds University.
His objectian was couched in the strongest terms.
Suaf’ is a pejorative term for sameane wha studies a lat.
The term ‘acid rain’ was coined in the nineteenth centursy.
The term ‘renewable energy is applied, for ex: ‘ample, ta energy deriving fram salar radiation.
In glowing terms The chairman spake of the achievements af the campany in glowing terms.
We let them know in no uncertain terms just haw disappainted we were.
Jncame fas increased in real terms by 5%.
Iceland has had a mild winter, in relative terms.
Our opponents settheterms of the debate.
The dispute was resalved n amicable terms.
Itis @ spart in which the tap men and women can campete an equal terms.
I'm an firstname terms with my bass.
They haven’t been an speaking terms since they had that big rau.
It hard to get awasy during term.
We have exams in the summer term.
We have exams attheendaf term.
The pregnancy went ta full term (= lasted the ‘normal length of time).
The contract was far @ Jixed termof five years.
Heserved a five-year prison term.
Her baby was barn atterm.
Ir the long term, our efforts will pay off.
Imprisonment, a term of office The president was swarn in far his second term af office.
The lease is granted for a set term of years.
This material is variusly termed ash, clinker,cinders or slag.
Wemet up at the bus terminat.
There were tuwo students at each terminal.
His contract was abruptly terminated.
Either party has therightto terminate theagreement.
The landlord gave noticeaf the termination of tenancy.
You are required fo glve the company six weeks’ notice of termination of emPployment.
She chose (o ‘havean earty termination.
The article uses rather specialized musicalterminologs.
The ouler walls, In building terminologs, are*double skin'.
The hotel has a roof terrace overlooking the sea.
There's atablefreeon the terrace.
Our house is in long Victorion terrace in north London.
The villagers had dug terraces in the hillside.
He suddenly collapsed—it was simply terrible.
Nothing very terribie hoppened.
Jtmust have been terrible for the survivors.
She was absolutely terrified at the thought of jumping off the bridge.
He's terrified of spiders.
The explorers set off 0 conquer new territories.
Troops were stationed on soverelen German territory.
The territory had been controlled by Azerbatjan for many years.
Tired of uriting detective novels, she began to explore new territory.
The territory was never densely seidled.
The soldiers stroyed into hostileterritary.
He was fitled with absolute terror at the sight.
He hadarealterror of darkness.
The explosion brought terror to hundreds of local residents.
He inspired terrar in eversone he met.
He was found hiding in terror: out of ~ Hecried out, out of Ppure terror: with~ His face was white with terror * PHRASES strike terror into (the heart of) sb Iis fearsome appearance struck terror into their hearts.
The group has resortedtoterror totry to get what it wants.
Thedictator'sten-year reign of terror left over 100 000dead.
This government will not give in to terrorism.
Public cooperation is vital in the fight against terrorism.
International The borbattacks have been attributed (0 a group of international terrorists.
Aircrajt remain likely terrorist targets.
This pe of exam does not provide a Jair testof thestudent's knowledge.
He seored well in the placement test and was put in the most advanced class.
The recruits were put through a week of gruelling endurance tests.
Triree actors out of a ‘hundred werechosen from the screen fest.
In aithe ~ Some of the questions in the history test wererather difficult.
Forensic tests showed tha the man had been poisoned.
The government has launched a campoign advising women of the need for regular smeor tests.
The revolutionary new system goes into beta test this month.
The test used in detecting the disease carries its own risks.
Three athletes were sent ‘home after failing drugs tests.
The urine test showed some sort of nfection.
The ‘new safety test came into force last month.
The machine refused to perform properly under test conditions.
The company is using the university data library s a test bed for its new software.
He's taken the car out on a test run.
The new drink went down well in the test trials.
The softuareis stillat the est stage.
SubJects had toattend ten test sessions on differentdoys.
The vehicledid not havea current test certificate at the time of the accident.
This was the first action taken bya cancer sufferer againsta tobocco compars, and.
The calls for tax reform pose a severe testfor the government.
The latest pay dispute has really put her management skills to the test.
Whether he would accept a pay cut would be the acid test of his loyalty to the company.
Whether this new technology will stand the test of time remains to be seen.
The product had not been adequately tested before being put on the market.
You should test your brakes regularly.
The exercise successfully tested the procedures for dealing.
We decided to test the theory experimentally.
Squeeze the frult fo test for ripeness.
I'm having my eyes tested thisweek.
Two of the athietes tested positive for illegal drugs.
The training tested his body to the very limit.
Neither goalkeeper wos seriously tested in @ rather poor match.
There were times when my temper was sorely tested.
The immaculate state of the ‘garden bears testament to a lifetime’s effort.
The president’s former aides were called to testify at his trial.
She refused (o estify against her brother before She was unwilling to testify before Congress.
Hehad by his own testimony taken part in the burglary.
The witness was called to give oral testimony about the incident outside the theatre.
The court ‘heard her testimony against the accused.
The it Iustrations are printed separately from the main text.
The catalogue consists of colour reprodctionsof the paintings withaccompanying text.
She strayed from the text in a few places to illustrate some of her more interesting points.
The program allows you to import text files from other word processors.
Antony and Cleopatra’ was one of our set texts for A level.
He stood up and began reading from a prepared text.
We're studying dramatic texts by sixteenthcentury playwrights.
Wediscussed the useaf metaphor in the text.
She has a job in textiles.
Sponge cakes have a light texture.
In~ The cloth was rough in texture.
He thanked her warmly for the meal.
Bill properly yet for his present thankful ad.
I'm just thankful that mymother never lived to see this.
Wewerethankful for the chance torest.
We would like to express our warmest thanks for all you've done.
You'll get little thanks from him for all your trouble.
Their generosity deserves our grateful thanks.
Thanks go to Claire Potter for making the hall available to us.
He got a bottle of whisky in thanks for his cooperation.
The chairperson proposed a vote of thanks fo the volunteers.
Many thanks for the flowers.
God We wereall pulied out alive, thanks be to God.
He didnt even say thank you.
We said our thank yous and goodbyes to the hostsand went tocatch acab.
She gof a special thank you for all her hard work.
The arctic shore remains frozen until the summer that.
The river often floods during the thaw.
Make sure the meat has thawed com: pletely before cooking.
The old nun was as imperious as ever, but visibly thawed when she saw the children.
The theatre was packed for the opening night.
The pier has a unique little puppet theatre.
We were at the theatre last night.
There'sa bar in the theatre.
He writes the sort of dialogue that makes great _theatre.
There was some good fringe theatre at the festival.
We saw some good street theatre while we were in Poris.
He is studying Greek theatre.
He's already been taken to theatre for the operation.
In (the)~ She was in the operating theatre for two haurs.
They are accused of theft from a newsagent's shop.
She admitted the theft of three pairs of trousers.
The fiim's haunting musical theme stayed inmy head fordays.
Hislater novels develop the theme of alienation.
Warmto *Our work, he continued, warming to his theme, ‘will bea milestone in scientific history.
Several familiar _themes emerged from the discussion.
The same themes run through all her novels.
He gave a tolk on the theme of teenoge unemployment.
Most of the essays appear to be variations on a few central themes.
Noteat SUBJECT (for verbs and nouns) theoretical adj.
This research is purely thearetical.
One of her pet theories is that people who restrict their calorie intake tive longer.
His comments are just abstract theory and.
Current feminist theory consists of several different trends.
Each school has ts own set f theories.
In~ In theory, these machines should last for ten ears.
He has a theory about why dogs walk round in circles before going tosleep.
They discuss their problems in group therapy sessions.
He will have to have shack therapy.
Check that the roast is cooked right through, using a meat thermometer.
Dy, doctoral, MA, Master's, MSc, PhD, etc.
She completed an MSe by thesis.
He's doing a docLoral thesis on the early works of Shostakovich.
The results of the experiment support his central thesis.
He advanced the thesis that too much choice was burdensome topeople.
Use airly thick wads of newspaper.
The paint's got t00thick.
Tt have tothin itdown.
With The air was thick with dust.
The atmosphere was thick with tension.
The thief struck while the family were ou.
Thefabric ‘was wearing thin.
That joke is wearinga littlethin.
The old horse was painfully thin.
She's tall and quite thin.
The paint looks a bit thin.
Becargful that the mixture doesr't get 100 thin.
He makes things out of wood.
He hadn't washed up the dinner things yet.
Come on kids, get your things together—we're going.
Hang on a second—T'll just take off my painting things (~ clothes).
Clear your painting things (= materials) away.
I'm going toarrive early, because I don't want to miss a thing.
She's tricked you, andyoucan’tdoa thing about t.
Nobody said a thing when he appeared with a wig on.
Fame and fortune don’t mean a thing {f you don't have happiness.
The best thing would be to apologizestraight away.
Tryto look on your rejection as a positive thing.
Too much studying can be a bad thing.
Thatwasa horriblething tosay toher.
The key thing is to remain calm.
He loses his temper at the slightest thing.
I's such a small thing to ask.
Apologizing is never the easiest thing £0 do.
She helped with the everyday things like shopping and cooking.
He's the nearest thing to a Jilm star I've ever met.
It justa practice, not the real thing.
Let's forget the whale thing.
The last thing she wanted was to upset her parents.
Hehasa funny wayaf doing things.
It's impossible to get things done when you're looking after a baby.
There are some weird things going on in that house.
The best thing about Alan is he's aluways honest.
Jack knows a thing or two about kids—he's got five.
There’s no such thing as ghosts (= they don't exist).
They go canveing, climbing, that sort of thing.
People defraud their companies every day, but Mike would ‘never do such a thing! a thing of the past Books may ane day becomea thing of the past.
She’s taken a few days off 1o think things over.
You should suggest changes, rather than accept things as they are.
Who's going to look after things while you're away?o Twant to get things sorted out before I go auay.
It might speed things up if you phonethem.
As things stand at present, he seems certain to win.
Wewere in trouble but now things are looking up.
Things looked bleak Jfor the future of the fuctory.
SbTrynotto let things get 1o you PHRASES all/other things being equal ALl other things being equal, the bigger fighter should win.
All things considered, I think we've dane a good Job.
They hired temporery Staff to keep things going over the summer.
He afferedto help, but sheassured him she had things in hand.
We chatted about school, but I could tell she had other things on her mind.
Don't worry about li—just le things take their course.
Her opology only served to make things worse.
The pay cut was just atasteof things to come.
Idid all the right things but Icouldn't get the engine to start.
She alweys manages to say the wrong thin.
Calling a doctor seemed the logical thing to do.
He did the decent thing and resigned.
It's not thedone thing to ask someone how mch they earn.
It wouldn't be quite the thing (o turn up in running gear.
I've hada long hard think about it.
Isuddenly thought of a way Icould help.
She thought long and hard before accepting his offer.
Whot can I do now? he thought franticalls.
Ioften think of Jane.
Einsteln was one of the world's ‘greatest thinkers.
Christian, Marxist, western, etc.
This topic requires a lot of deep thinking.
Yes, we'll phone them instead— that's good thinking (= a good idea).
The school would have made better use of the money with a little forward thinking.
Llis claims to bea millionaire are just wishfulthinking.
We have some hard thinking to do before weagree tothe plan.
It was difficult to see what the thinking was behind their eventual decision.
Traditional educational thinking placed importance on learning by rote.
They are unlikely to have changed their thinking s0 so0n.
His writings on motorized warJaredominated strategic thinking in the 1930s.
There's been ashift in government thinking on genetically-modified food.
Most of the pupils’ marks were in theupper third of the range.
Into He divided the money intothirds.
Over a third of sales were made over the Internet.
Many of the refugees were suffering badly from thirst.
After walking five miles, they had worked up a great thirst.
He has an unquenchable thirst for knowledge.
It was a comforting thought that at least her father hadn't suffered.
Before going on stage, I breathe deeply and think pasitive thoughts.
My immediate thought was that he must be joking.
She occupied all his waking thoughts.
I've just had thought (= an idea).
He remained aloof thinking his own thoughs.
Let me have your thoughts on the report.
She said shecouldn’t bear the thought of living alone in the house.
Idon’t like the thought of you walking home alone.
All kinds of thoughts raced through my mind.
He lay there thinking gloomy thoughts about Iife and death.
The children were overjoyed at the thought of going to the seaside on holiday.
They ashed him what his thoughts were on the government's ‘announcement.
Would Mark be able to help? It's just a thought.
The mere thought of lice makes my head {tch.
She is known Jor her deep thought and intellectual woys.
He was so upset, he was incapable of coherent thought.
My job is so repetitive, it does ot require much consciousthought.
I've given the matter coreful thought.
Don't give itanother thought (= to tell sb not to worry after they have said they are sorry).
Spare a thought for us—we'll be working through the night to finish the report.
The article was intended to provoke thought.
Not enough thought has gone intothis essay.
Afler a moment’s thought, T accepted his offer freadom of thought The constitution guarantes freedom of thought and belief a line/mode/train of thought That line of thought can only lead to one conclusion.
He hesitated, as though he had lost his train of thought.
There was a thought-provoking article about poverty in the paper: with no thought for sth He ran into the burning house with no thought for his own life.
They belong todifferent schools of thought.
Thank you for the flowers—it wasavery kind thought.
He thrashed the poor servant with his stick.
The cow fell on its sideand thrashed about wildly.
Thevisiting side were soundly thrashed.
He gota sound thrashing once his father found out.
The team suffereda 40 thrashing on Sunday.
Richmond clinched promotion with a 503 thrashing of Roundhay.
The player's career is hanging by a thread after this latest inJury to hs knee.
Ifound it hard tofollow the main thread of his argument.
The speaker lost his thread halfway through the talk.
Shestruggled againstallthe interruptions to keepthe thread of her argument.
The authar eventually picks up the various threads of the plot and weaves them into amasterly conclusion.
On studying the different historians’ accounts, common threads emerge.
As the film progresses, thethreadsof the plot slowly begin to unravel.
Despite dire threats of vialence from extremist_groups, the protest passed off peacefully.
Idle The kids took no natice of the teacher's idle threats.
The company’s pay affer was accampanied by thinly-veiled threats of redundancies if it was rejected.
Teachers have lifted their threat of strike action.
The government refused to give intothe hijackers' threats.
The accused made death threats againsta notable politician.
The national park is under renewed threat from road-building schemes.
The opposition presents no immediate threat to the government.
The government was faced with internal rebeltion as welt as external threats.
Translators do not yet perceive computers asa threat to their livelihaod.
Many wild plants are under threatof extinction.
The junta reacted violently to the perceived threatta its authority.
He says he was physically threatened in an attempt to get him to sign over his rights.
She had repeatedly threatened to commit suicide.
She threatened him with a gun.
Our marriage was constantly threatened by his other women.
Many species are now threatened with extinction.
He hesitated before stepping across the threshold.
She has an extremely low ‘boredom threshold.
The number of people with the disease is reaching a critical threshold.
Below a certain threshold level a person willnot be able todetect sound.
Her wages are below the income tax threshold.
He gets vicarious thrills from watching people bungee jumping.
He used to steal from shops just for the thrillof it.
She felta thrill of excitementas the mountains came into view.
I'm really thrilled with the results.
The glass industry still thrives there.
These traditions continued to thrive.
Some peaple seem to thrive on stress.
She seized her attacker by the throat.
She cleared her throat, then ‘began to speak.
His throat constricted with fear when he saw the knife.
She felt the cold water trickle down her throat.
The medicine left a sour taste in the back of my throat.
Hefelta lump in his throat, and tears forming in hiseyes.
The vein at his temple throbbed angrily.
Her head throbbed with pain.
Leftwing revolutionaries toppled the king from his throne.
On the~ Queen Victoria remained on the throne Jor aver sixty years.
Spanish throne sb's claim/right to the throne, an heir to the throne The marriage failed to produce an heir to the throne.
According to the papers, the prime minister's private secretary is the real power behind the throne.
He made his way slowly through the throng.
She was lost in the throng.
He disappeared into the throng.
He threw the keys casually down on the table.
She threw her head back and laughed.
He threatened to throw her in the river if she screamed.
He threw a stone at the window.
She threw the ballto him.
The realization that she was gonewaslikea knife thrust.
The Third Army made an aggressive thrust towards the front line.
She explained the broad thrust of the party's policies.
The dramatic thrustof thefflm centres around the conflict between the brothers.
She suddenly thrust out her arm.
He thrust a pieceof paper atme.
She thrust ‘her hands deep into her pockets.
She thrust her way through the dense undergrouwth.
She felt her heart give an extra thud.
Hehit the floor with a sickening thud.
Her heart was thudding violently as she went into the room.
The waves thudded against the side of the ship.
Thesniper’s bullets thudded into the wall.
Steps thudded on the stairs.
His heart thudded with excitement.
He was beaten up by a gang of thugs.
Jab, Jerk ‘What'll we do with them?" he asked, jerking his thumb at the suitcases.
He smiled and raised a thumb in greeting.
I'stuck out a thumb and a car stopped immediately.
Isat there twiddling my thumbs until the manager finally appeared.
He made a thumbs-up sign through the window to tell us everything was fine.
She gave the television a £00d thump, andhe picture came back.
With 8~ The sack of wheat hit the ground with @ loud thump.
He thumped Jack hard in the face.
He thumped his fist down onto the table.
With She thumped the desk with her fist.
Her heart began to thump wildly in her chest.
He spun round, his heart thumping against hisribs.
The gunire rumbled like dull thunder.
Thunder boomed in thesky overhead.
The windows were shaken by a tremendous crash of thunder.
The clock ticked relentlessly away on the mantelpiece.
To take advantageof this extra bonus offer, simply tick the box on your order form.
She mentally ticked off the names of the people she had already spoken to.
The business is ticking over nicely at the moment.
Morrison had kept things ticking aver in my absence.
I've got complimentary tickets for the theatre.
Concessionary tickets are avatlable at half the standard price.
Use the coupon belauw ta reserve advance tickets for the exhibition.
You must hold a valid ticket for your entire journey tie before boarding the train.
Heshowed the guard his ticket.
Saturday ~to I'vegot a freeticket to the match.
The police officer gave us a ticket for going through ared light.
He felt @ tickleon the back of his neck.
We have to get up early to catch the tide.
The body was washed up by the fide thenext da.
Seals lieon therocksat low tide.
We went out to sea on the ebb tide.
He hasrr't the courage to swim against the political tide.
Seeing the tide was now running in ‘hisdirection, he renewed his campaign for reform.
It takes courage to speak out ‘against thetideof publicopinion.
They were carried along on a tide of euphoria.
Civil liberties groups helped to turn the tide against industrial violence.
In the early 1990s there was a marked turnof thetide.
The sitting raom is fairly tidy.
His tie was undone.
His tie was askew and his hair dishevelled.
We have close economic ties with our neighbours.
He cut all ties with the Church.
There is a strong tie between her and her daughters.
In, rasultin Thematch ended ina tie.
Egypt and France ~for Therewasatiefor firstplace.
He wore plimsolls, laosely tied with bits of string.
Tie the cords neatly.
He tied his dressing gown firmly around him.
She tied the rope securely to tree.
Katie tied ‘her hair back witha ribban.
The prisoners were tied ‘hand and foot.
Their company's future is clasely tied taour awn.
Production and consumption are inextricably tied together.
The concert will tie in with the festival of dancetaking place the same weekend.
You can'tstay tied £0 her forever: up with Her behaviour s tied up with her Jeelings of guilt.
Those Jeans have got too tight and I can’t wear them.
Therape suddeniy went tight.
Hold tight” She increased her grip.
His jaw ‘was clenched tight.
Every muscle in her fuce was drawn tight.
Shut your eyes tight.
The clath was stretched tight over the frame.
Heheld his children tight.
Keep the rape tight.
You didn't tie it tight enaugh.
Security at the airport remains tight.
Her fingers tightened convulsively with every Jolt she received.
He Selt his stomach tighten.
His words made her throat tighten.
His hand tightened painJully around her wrist.
Her grip seemed to tighten on the daor handle.
He saw his father’s jaw tighten in irri.
His mouthtightened inlo a thin hard line.
Her face tightened with pain.
Steps were taken to tighten discipline i the schoal.
The law in this area has been tightened up considerably.
I'm laying ceramic floor tiles in the kitchen.
The supermarkel didn't have enough people warking on the tlls.
Put the ‘money straight into the till.
He gave her £10from the till.
The ground tilted sharply downwards.
Tilt the mirror away from you.
Her face was tilted towards the sky.
Ske thought for a minute.
The house has exposed oak timbers.
As time went by we saw less and less of each other.
The changing seasons mark the passing of time.
Time heals all wounds.
In~ The world exists in time and space.
Perceptions change over time.
The origins of this custom are lost in the mists of time.
My watch keeps good time.
The attacks were lounched at 9p.
British Summer, Greenwich Mean, etc.
Look ot the time! We'll be late.
This time fomorrow Tl be in Canada.
There are extra buses at peak times.
We need to fix a time for the next meeting.
Yowll feel differently about it when the time comes.
Check the programme ahead of time.
The plane took off an hour behind time.
By the time you get there the meeting will be over.
We g0t home in time to see the end of the match.
The trains arerarely on time.
There is lang lead time between order and delivery of the product.
Job if you give me time.
It takes time to make changes tn the law.
It 100k her G long time to read the report.
Takeyour time (= take as much time s you like).
She spends much of her time reading.
It helps to pass the time.
She devotes all her spare time to gardening.
He put all his time into the show.
They didn’t allow much time for discussion.
We had to wait some time before the busarrived.
We have no time fo lose.
Sorry, your time is up.
Hesurfs the Internet for hours ata time.
Llived there for atime.
You'll get used to the work in time.
Her skills improved with time.
Be patient, Emily! Al in good time.
The letter was in my pocket all the time (= while I was looKing for it).
Finishing the book was a race against time.
We will discuss this matter later f time permits.
Get fo the airport in good time (= plenty of time before the plane leaves).
Pl be back in ten minutes’ time.
Have you lived abroad for any length of time? most of the time, a period of time, somela long time ago Her parents died c long time ago.
Times are hard for the un employed.
We hada greattime atthe party.
Times have changed since Grandma was young.
He lived at the time of the French Revolution.
At one time Mary was my best friend.
The Beatles were before my time.
Mr Curtis was the manager in my time (= when 1 was working there).
I'm determined to pass this time.
Next time you're here let’s have lunch together.
This would bea bad time to ell her.
Tve told you countless times.
Your time will come.
The time isipe for revolution.
The lift can take four people ata time.
Hot water isavatlable at all times.
He can be rather moody at times.
She'll have gone by the time we get there.
It was a fun time for us girls.
In a race, etc.
He completed the course in record time.
She clocked up one of the fastest times of theyear.
This campaign is well timed.
We had timed our arrival to perfection.
The schedule must becarefully timed.
The meeting is timed for 30'clock.
The show is timed to coincide with the launch.
Implemen tation of the reforms was kept to a very strict timetabl.
According (o the timetable, the bus should have come in at 9.
There s disagreement within the government over the exact timing of the referendum.
The fiming of the meeting is not convenient.
He has the split-second timing all good players need.
The punchline was delivered with perfect comic timing.
Using press releases (0good effect isa matter of timing.
She has a wonderful sense of timing.
Store the seeds in an airtight tin.
The sky had aslight pink tingetoit.
With a~ The wineglass dropped to thefloor with tinkle.
The fabrics weremainly in rich cutumn tints,reds and oranges.
The branches of the trees were barely shawing their firsttint of green.
The minister appealed to the Cabinet not to target her comparatively tiny budget of £4 billion.
Slitle tinyltiny lttle Look ot his little tiny fingers.
The cat was black except for a patch of white on the very tip of its tail.
Weget rather poor tips on weeknights.
He said he'd been given a hot tip for that afternoon’s race.
The senator has been widely tipped as future president.
The band is being hotly tipped for the top.
Acting on a tip-aff.
Customs officers had received a tipoff ‘about a shipment of cocaine.
She found herself tiring more quickly these days.
The long walk had really tired meout.
After an hour Rick began to ire.
The walk left mequlte tired out.
Polly suddenly felt bone tired.
Of course I'm not ill.
He felt tired enough to gotosleep standing up.
I'm still bit tired from the journey.
He looked tired and draun.
She had ‘grown heartily tired of his company.
I'm sick and tired of listening to you whine.
Once the lost boxes were packed away, he wosovertaken by wave of tiredness.
Finally firedness ‘overcame him, and he ell asleep on the sofa.
The team was in good spirits and showed na signs of tiredness.
Vitamin C helps maintoin heolthy connective tissue.
Dyes were extracted by boiling the plont tisste.
She treats skin and soft tissue injuries in cosualty.
She grabbed a wod of tissues from the box and socked up the spilt wine.
Shegently dabbed her eyes with atisstue.
He played the title role in “Hamlet.
She published her poetry under the title*The Land and the Garden’.
Forty per cent of new titles were actually new editions of existing books.
Mrs' was a courtesy title for any unmarried woman in business ot that time.
Minlster" is one of several diplomatic titles.
Job His job title i Special Projects Officer.
The king bestowed lands and titles upon his ollowers.
European, national, world, etc.
French Open, Premier League, etc.
Deporti clinched the title with a goal in the final seconds of the last game of the season.
He held the worid heavsweight title until lastyear.
He has been building up fitness for his world title challenge.
We'll have another round of toast, please.
She ate two slices of toast spread with jam.
For lunch we hod cheeseon toas.
Heraised hisglass os if tomakea toast.
The bridegroom ended his speech by proposing etoast tothe hosts.
Toast the bread lightly on bothsides.
He roised his glass, silently toasting his absent son.
In/with We toasted his victory in champagne.
Thealr wos thick with toboccosmoke.
The ban on cigorette advertising will upset the tobacco lobby.
The shoe pressed poinfully against her Under his bare toes the floor felt gritty.
She stood on her (oes to kiss him.
Ouch! That was my toe you just trod on.
Sofar they have only dipped their toe in the potentially vast computer market.
The man's broad smile made her toes curl (~ made her feel embarrassed or uncomfortable).
He had some kind of fungus between his toes.
The threat of inspections kept us all on our toes (= made sure we kept everything up to standard and were ready).
He gave himself a good scrubfrom head (o toe.
There was a communal toilet on the landing for the four flats.
Someone's forgotten to flush the toilet.
He flushed the letter doun the oilet.
She presented them with a small gift in token of her thanks.
She inspected the rooms and found them perfectly tolerable.
In August the heat s barely tolerable.
He watched the kids throw water around with amused tolerance.
Howard County has a zero tolerance policy on alco- ‘holuse by teenagers.
Somechildren havea low tolerance for boredom.
Tolerance to alcohol decreases with age.
She was showing greater tolerance towards her younger sister than before.
Mares are surprisingly tolerant of the roughness and rudeness of their own offspring.
He's pretty tolerant of myfaulss.
They learn to be tolerant of other people.
Sheactually seemed pleased tosee him: mostof her visitors she merely tolerated.
Union activity was officially toleroted but strongly discouraged.
The government is not prepared to tolerate this situation any longer.
This plant prefers alkaline sofl, though it will readily tolerate some acidity.
She tolerated thechemotherapy well.
Religious minorities were allowed a wide measure of toleration.
He preached toleration for all religtons.
The pressure of fame can takea terFibletoll.
The recession is taking its oll.
The death toll from yesterday’s crash is still rising.
The casualty toll could reach 200.
Illness has taken a heavy toll on her.
Zhe rising tone of her voice emphasized her panic.
The question was posed in a flat tone.
She answered him in a brisk, ‘matter-of fact tone.
Her tone was mild, almost conversational.
In cool, clipped tones, he told her what had happened.
His tone was faintly mocking.
When she heard my accent, she adopted a warmer tone.
Don't you take thattone with me.
His fone changed dramatically when he saw the money.
Her tone betrayed her impatience.
Jfelt hewas being condescending.
The general tone of the report was favourable.
The newspaper sets a high moral tone in its editorial about politicians’ private lives.
Her enthuslastic speech set the tone for theday's conference.
His letter was very negative in tone.
Everyone knows now, thanks to Ken's loose tongue (= he could not keep the secret).
I's very rude to stick your tongue out at people.
He ran his tongue ‘nervously aver his lips.
She was dying to say something sorcastic © ‘him, but bit her tongue and stayed silent.
The wine hod loosened his tongue.
The dog lay in a patch of shade with its tongue hanging out.
The snake's tongue flicked out of its mouth.
His tongue licked dry lips.
This Is a small island and tongues are beginning to wag (~ peopleare beginning to gossip).
Before she could find her tongue (= speak) the door had closed behind him.
It was on the tip of her tongue to refuse.
He was having troubie ting his tongue around my name.
Tongues of flame licked up the walls.
She speaks English and Danish, though her native tongue is German.
She could hear men whispering ina foreign tongue.
Cutting concrete would blunt a metal<cutting tool.
Workers top downed tools (= stopped work) in protest at poor safety standards in the works.
The guitarist ‘opened the case and took out the tool of his trade.
This dictionary is an invaluable reference tool for advanced learners.
We must ensure that education is not used as a political t0ol.
Thecar overtook witha toot.
The taxidriver gnvea toot on the horn.
She worea brace to correct her gapp teeth.
Her smile showed crooked teeth.
Skyscrapers rose like Jjagged teeth.
Mink have razor-sharp teeth.
Ive still zot one of my baby teeth.
I'vejust had a toth out at thedentist's.
The dog bared its teeth at us ond growled.
The man smiled, revealing perfect white teeth.
He broke off what he was saying, clamping his teeth together.
In His pipe was firmly clamped between his teeth.
The cat sank its teeth into his finger.
Billy's first tooth is now through.
Their teeth werechattering withcold.
Her teeth flashed as she smiled.
The cat leftteeth marks in my arm.
He clashed the spoon against his teeth as he ote.
She answered the phone with acigarette between her teeth.
The cat came in with a mouse in its teeth.
Come here now!’ she growled through her teeth.
Wedidn't climb!o the very topof the ‘mountain, but close enough.
There was a vaseon top of the bookcase.
It to, reach, rise to Few of the trainee footballers make it to the top.
She rose to the topaf her profession within ten years.
The company hasan unusually high proportion of young peaple at the top.
Pay was now (at the) top of theemployees agende.
She was 10p of the class in maths.
She came top in the exams.
Before dealing with specific cases, she spoke on the broad topic of ‘discipline’.
The book cavers such diverse topics as snarkelling and first aid.
It might be better to avoid such a cantraversial topic.
In the next chapter the writer focuseson the topicaf adoption.
Our teaching is based largely on topic wark.
Mr Graham will speak on the tapic of dag breeding.
She wasan excellent speaker; but I found her choice of t0plc stronge.
His main topic of canversatian s football.
There were rumours that shehad posed topess for a mogozine.
The policeman plaved his torch aver the men’s faces.
Shane in their direction.
Westruggled to read the map by the light of the torch.
They lif their torches from the Jire.
Servants were carrying lighted torches.
The path ta the castle was lit by blazing torches.
The torches were burning fiercely.
The torch flickered and wentout.
She has suffered great mental torment.
The sea wailed like a soul in torment.
The town was hit bya tornado last night.
After heavy rain, the littlestream becomesa raging torrent.
In~s The rain poureddown in torrents.
The sight of her futher unleashed a tarrent of emations.
The headless torso of a man was found in some bushes.
The prison ers wereroutinely tortured.
The arder of play was decided by the 10ss of @ coin.
She picked up the package and casually tassed it into her bag.
He tossed the leiter over to me.
She tossed about restlessly all night with a high fever.
He was tossed about in his boat.
He tossed and turned all night, unableto sleep.
Tuss the vegetables lightly inoliveoil.
The sum total of my knowledge of biology is not impressive.
Britain’s jobless total rose by 20 000 last month.
Theirearnings were £250, £300 and £420, giving a total of £970.
In total, they spent 420 hours on the project.
The slightest touch will setoff the alarm.
The door swung openat his touch.
You can now doyour shopping at the touch of a buttan.
The family photos give the room a homely touch.
Giving her flowers wasa nice touch.
The decor includes many idiosyncratic little touches.
She's just putting the finishing touches to her painting.
Witk students she had asure touck and showed great personal sensitivity.
He handles this controversial subject with a light fouch.
He found his old political touch when the crisis emerged.
Maybe the champion is losing hermagic touch.
Her speech brought a welcome tauch of humour tothe evening.
With a~of ‘Thanks, she said, with a touch of sarcasm.
The security staff were in close touch with thelacal police.
I'm trying to get in touch with Jane.
In It is important fo keep in touch with the latest research.
Let's keep in touch.
I'll put you in touch with someane in your area.
I've lost touch with all my old Jriends.
Are you still in touch with your friends from college? out of ~ This government s increasingly out of touch with ordinary voters.
He did natactually touch the substance, but may have inhaled microparticles.
You've hardly touched your food (=not eaten it).
Their faces were almost touching.
His fingers briefly touched hers.
He accidentally touched a live wire attached to overhead power cables.
Her hand reached out to touch his cheek.
He wouldn't let me touch the wound.
He touched her gently on the arm.
She touched him with her hand.
Thestory tauched me very deeply.
Photojournatism and the birthof photography are merely touched on in the book.
Wantto ] want (o touch briefly on another aspect of the problem.
We were deeply touched by your concern.
Things werepretty toughat first.
The government has promised fo get tough on crime.
Then this guy started acting tough.
The president embarkedona whirlwind tourof the provinces.
We reboarded the coach and set off on a magical mystery tour in search of tea.
Phone for details of the band'’s tour dates.
Our tour leaders are all fuent ir English.
The team’s tour manager called a press conference.
He wasn't selected for England's tour party to Australia.
Wemet a group of cyclists on a tour in the Lake District.
The band is currently on tour in the States.
Id liketodoa tour of Belgium on foot.
The soldiers were returning froma six-month tour of duty in Northern Ireland.
Our host gave us a quick tour of the house.
Tl give you the grand tour of the backyard.
Inspection The headmaster started his tour of inspection with the stayf room.
The islands’ economy is largely dependent upon tourism.
With the advent of therailuways, tourism boomed.
The city is finally realizing its tourism potential.
The town survives mainly through tourism.
The Story of the Loch Ness Monster has attracted many tourists to the area.
Pompeii is one of Italy’s prime tourist attractions.
The theme park is the region's most popular tourist facility.
The town is off the usual tourist troil.
She works as a tourist guide.
The city has unrealized tourist potential.
PuRASES influx of tourlsts The festival is accompanled by huge influx of tourists.
The tournament was played under floodlights.
Several top teams have agreed to play in the tournament.
She retired from tournament golf last year.
In athe ~ the strongest player in the tournament ‘out of a/the~ The loser will be out of the tournament.
Thhe ship, whoseengine ‘hadfailed, is now safely under touw.
He had a towel draped across his shoulders.
Several towels hung over the side of the bath.
Twin touers Jlanked the castle gateway.
Armed border guards manned the lookout towers.
It was built as a new town in the 1960s.
London was a boom town and the stock market was soaring.
Beverley was then the county town of the Fast Riding of Yorkshire (= the main town where the county offices were).
She has gone back 1o live in her home town.
Kitzbithel Is an ancient fortified town with fine medieval buildings.
I's been a ghost town since the gold rush ended.
They wanted to move outof town andstart a new life inthe country.
They'll be back in town tomorrouw.
Mum’s in town doing some shopping.
This chemical is toxicto many forms of ife.
Desktop publishing is probably the best executive toy ever invented.
Freddie kept snatching toys from the other children.
All kinds of tays can be borrowed from the toy librar.
The burglar had left several traces of his presence.
Little trace i left of how Stone Age Dpeople lived.
The search party had found no trace of the missing climbers.
Remove all traces of rust with a small wire brush.
The ship ‘seems 10 have sunk without trace.
Traces still rematn of the longdefunct Surrey Iron Railuway.
Without a~ of sth ‘No thonks, she said, with a trace of irritation in her volce.
The plane was lost without atrace over the Atlantic.
There was not the faintest trace of irony in her voice.
Kelp is rich in vitamins and trace elements.
Plice have ‘been unable to trace her movements during her final days.
The stolen paintings have been successfully traced toa London warehouse.
Words have over the centuries ‘acquired meanings not eastly traced in dictionaries.
The book traces the history of the game back to anincident in 1663.
The beach Iscrisscrossed with animal tracks.
Rabbits had left tracks in the snow.
She felt the excitement of a journaliston the track of a good story.
The disease was stopped in its tracks by immunization programmes.
It's getting late—I'd better make tracks (= leave).
The track leads across a meadouw.
When the track forks, take the leftfork.
Continue along the farm track for another hundred metres.
The new manager successfully got the team back onto the right track.
The police were on the wrong track when they treated the case asa revenge killing.
The competition features ‘many top track and feld athletes.
Many branch lines were closed, and the tracks lifted.
Shedecided to change her career track.
He switched tracks and went back wocollege.
Film comedy developed along a similar track to film drama.
The ship was on a southerly track.
She seems to be on the fast track for promotion.
The countryisonthefast track to democracy.
If possible, select poirs of fish thot already have a track record for breeding.
Ll around the pyramids, salespeople were daing a roaring trade in souvenirs.
The organization promotes falr trade with developing countries.
It has been a bad year for the retall trade.
All manner of hawkers and street sellers were plying their trade.
He bullt up a trade in seeds, cornand manure.
Shops have lostaday's trade.
The countries were locked in a trade war, refusing to allow imports of each other’s goods.
The US was accused of employing unfair trade practices.
The five countries formed a regional trade bloc.
Several local firms took partinatrademission to Spain.
The road has been an important trade route since prehistoric times.
The vase was bought by a trade buyer (= for example, somebody who works in the an816 tiques trade).
She's in the wholesale fruit trade.
These spectal flour socks are known in the trade os ‘pockets’.
Trude betueen the Adriatic ports and their hinterland had groun.
In Steps were taken to ban the trade in ivory.
The US has restricted trade with Indio.
The experienced artisan would poss on the tricks of the trade to the apprentice.
The Jirm openly traded in arms.
Heclaimed that all shops should beableto tradejreetyon Sundays.
They now trade as a partnership.
Early explorers troded directly with the Indians.
The company has now ceased trading.
China is nowoneof the largest traders in the world.
You can set up in business as asole trader; in partnership or as ¢ limited company.
This is a job for a skitled tradesman.
He got into trouble Jor seducing the daughter of a respectable tradesman.
Theunion represents 40% of all hospital workers.
The union threatened strikeaction f its demands were not met.
Several ‘unions expressed support for thestrike.
In heavy trading, the 100share index ciosed down 36 points.
Sole trading is where an individual carrles on his or her own business.
Catholic, Christian, pagon, etc.
Eastern, English, European, etc.
Following in the Hitchoock tradition, he always appears in the films he directs.
Villogers get together every year to keep this cgeold tradition olive.
He broke with the fomily tradition and did not go down the mines.
According to tradition, & tree grew on the spot where the King was Killed.
He's a politician in the traditionof (= similar in style to) Kenneds.
The building wos constructed in the best traditions of medievol church crchitecture.
Through traffic is directed around the bypass.
Increase Building larger roads could generate more troffic.
Traffic was held up for stx hours by the motorway blockade.
In the town centre, troffic was already building up as early as 3 pm.
Traffic has increased by 50% in ten years.
Trafficclogs the streets of the ity centre.
Traffic thins noticeably after 9a.
The road is being widened to keep traffic moving.
Ve joined the troffic heading rorthwerds on the motoruway.
Sheep area trofSfic hazard in the hills.
Widening the road would improve traffic flow.
Internet, Net, site, Web, website Our company will help you generate site troffic.
Police report severe traffic joms on the M25, with five-mile tailbacks in places.
There are temporary traffic lights because of the roaduwors.
Turn eftat the third setof troffic lights.
Stop when the lights change tored.
The lights were on red but she didn't stop.
The traffic lights weren't working.
The closure of the factory is a tragedy for thewhole community.
Greek, Jacobean, Shakespearean tragic odj.
The couple laid afalse trafl to escape the paparazzi.
The tourists lefi a trail of litter behind them.
The dog had picked up the trail of a rabbit.
The fox had crossed a stream, and the hounds lost the trail.
They had to find the kidnappers before the trail went cold.
Detectives had found several new clues anduwere back on the murderer s trail.
The hurricane passed, leaving a trail of devastation in its wake.
This restaurant Is off the tourist trail.
After a disastrous few seasons, the team are on the comeback trail.
The trail wends its way through leafy woodland and sunny meadous.
They spent their lives trailing around the country.
Liverpool are now trailing badly in the league.
The last train leaves at 00.
London to Glasgow, etc.
He was pushed into the path of an ancoming train.
She ran alongside the departing tratn, waving goodbye.
Jumped on the train just as it was about 1o leave.
T'm going to the tation to meet her off the train.
The company plans t run trains on key intercity routes.
Driven to despair, hethrew himself under a train.
In summer the trains run as often as every ten minutes.
The train terminated in Cariisle.
Most trains are running late because of the accident.
Into sth, pull in, pull into sth, steam in, stesm into sth The next train to arrive at Platform 2 Is the 12.
The train came in and I got on.
The train drew into the station.
Ve didn't want to leave the platform in case the train came.
The train reached Prague at half past six.
The train pulled out of the station.
The train now standing at Platform 3is the 16.
Slowly the train began to move.
The highspeed train travels at 120 mph.
The train chugged slowly forward.
The train rattled into the station.
The train jolted into motion.
The train came towards them.
The train entered the tunnel.
It's quicker by train.
Brindisi and Rome ~forto He was leaving on the early train for Zaragoza.
That telephone call set in train a whole series of events.
Unemployment brings greater difficulties in its train (= causes great difficultios).
In the train of (= following behind) the rich and famous came the journalists.
Theteam is training hardfor the big match.
The animals haveall been well trained.
It is important that staff should be properly trained.
Many comPpnies recruit groduate irainees to rain as managers.
New recruits undergo six weeks’ basic training at this naval base.
No one must aperate the machinery without proper training.
Using spreadsheets requires minimal training.
Informal He is good at selling, although ke has had no formal (roining.
You have to do a year's intenstve training to become a paramedic.
She'san accountant by training.
Iam delighted with the work he has done in training.
Training for nursing was on strictly formal lines.
Employees should be given training in safety procedures.
She did six menths' hard training before the marathon.
This locol newspaper has been a training ground for several top journalists.
In~ Lewis is in serious training for the Olympics.
Her boss did not disploy ony human troits.
She shares several character traits with her father.
We do not krow which behavioural traits are inherited and which ac quired.
He turned traitor and Joined theopposition.
Heis seen as a traitor to the cause.
The last tram ran through Glasgow in September 1962.
They sat together on the rattling tram.
He soved little girl from being trampled underfootin the rush for the fire exit.
The government is trompling on the views of ordinary people.
Police officers ‘had been trompling all over the ground.
Ina deep trance, the subject i taken back to anearlier stogeaf their life.
The village lay tranquil in theevening sunlight.
The president had entered into fraudulent property transactions.
The system records all iransactions between the firm and its suppliers.
Transactions in land are frequently handled byan estate agent.
The war caused a massive transfer of population.
There has been a net transfer of lower-paid people away from the inner cities.
Her boss recommended a permanent transfer overseas.
Employees are paid by direct transfer to @ bank account.
Only the owner can make a transfer of goods.
Skills cannof be transferred directly from a trainer to a trainee.
Data is easily transferred electronically.
Sovereignty was formally transferred on December 27.
Can the disease be transferred acrass species? from, into She transferred the sauce inio a china jug.
Tre shares are freely transferab.
Tickets are transferabe betuween mem- ‘bers of the same family.
The riots radically transformed the situation.
Things cannot be transformed overnight.
The place was transformed from a quiet farming village inta a busy port.
The way we work has undergone a radical transformation in the past decade.
He was struggling to make the transformation from single man to responsible husband.
Goine ta college brought about a dramatic transformation in her outlook.
The transformation from disused docks Into city-centre cultural venue took three years.
In This decision marked a fundamental transformation in polics.
An improved mass transitsystem would cut traffic on the roads.
The port has become a transit Ppoint in the drug trade.
The passengers had been transferred into the transit lounge.
The goods were still in a transit shed an the quay.
The city has acquired a light railtransitsystem.
Manyof the goods were damaged in transit.
The negotiators hoped t effect a smooth transition to an interim administration.
The company was slow to make the transition from paper to computer.
The ceremony marks the transition of the studentto graductestatus.
Her transition from girl to woman was complete.
The country is in tran sition froman agricultural oan industrial saciety.
This training course aims to smooth the transition between education and employment.
Tiramisu' literally translates as ‘pull-meup'.
Thisword is difficult to translate.
The word ‘sensus’ can be translated os feeling’.
Italian—can you translate for me?from The book has been translated from the Jopanese by Livia Yamaguchi.
English PHRASES widely translated The novel has been widely translated.
Teacher expectations do not automatically translate themselves into student results.
There will be a simultaneous translation in English and Chinese.
I've gof this translation to do for Friday.
She tried making her own translationof the sign without consulting a dictionary.
The poems do not survive the translation into English.
The irony is lost in translation.
The translation of the Latin motto reads ‘Not for oneself, but for others'.
Each unit of the course ends with sentences for translation.
Simultaneous translation into English is avallable to delegates.
Classes are based on discussion rather than on the oneway transmission of knowledge.
There will be simultaneous transmission of the concert on TV and radio.
The virus's usual transmission route s by sneezing.
There is a risk of transmission of the virus between hypodermic users.
The disease cannot be transmitted.
The infection can be transmitted from a mother to her baby.
The virus is easilytransmitted via needles.
They discovered voice transmitters hidden in the wall.
The receiver picks up pulses emitted by the transmitter: transparent adj.
Her eyelids were blue and almost transparent.
She will haveto ‘hovea heartlung transplant within 48 hours.
It likely that such a fransplant will berejected inolder people.
Into Organs are transplanted from dorors into patients who need them.
The Duich successfully transplanted trees to the East Indies.
Staff who transfer to a different office will receive a transport_allowance.
The car broke dotn, leaving us without lransport.
Slow down— there are speed traps along thisstretchof road.
The fox had managed tofree tself from therap.
Mousetraps are traditionally baited with cheese.
The overhead cable isa potential death trap for birds.
Into Itiseasytofall into the trap of taking outa loan you cannot afford.
She scorns the visible trappingsof success, preferring to live unnoticed.
They enjoyed all the troppings of wealth.
The phobia may have its root in a childhood trauma.
The job involves frequent travel.
The new bypass will reduce travel time to the airport.
News travels fust these days.
She travels widely in her job.
The dissidents were unable to hold meetings or travel freely.
Ppendently I prefer travelling independently to going on a package holiday.
We had to travel separately as we couldn't get seats on the same Jlight.
The job gives her the opportunity to travel'abroad.
Hundreds of hospilal patients may have to travel long distances for treatment.
We decided (o travel by car.
We travelled through France and into Germany.
When I finished college I went travelling for six months (= spenttime visiting different places).
She travels light, choosing touseas little equipment as possible.
Her futher was a commercial traveller who sold Kitchenuware.
Attractive discounts are available 1o frequent travellers.
Independent travellers often steer clear of the most touristy spots.
Local tribesmen earn their living guiding travellers across the mountains.
Every hotel room ‘hasa colour TV, telephone and hospitality troy.
He ‘balanced the tray on his knees.
The tyre (read has been worn below the legal limit.
He camedouwn the stairs, treading as heavily as he could.
It would berisky to hurry.
The government will have to tread carefully in handling this issue.
Ske planted the seeds and trod the earth down.
Billy trod in a big puddle.
Some cake crumbs had been trodden into the carpet.
Becareful not to tread on the flowers.
This book is a treasure kouse of information on Arctic birds.
Many forgotten treasures have been discovered in the attics of old houses.
The treasurer’s report glves a breakdown of the club’s income and expenditure.
Snatls area tasty treat for hedgehogs.
In store If their latest album is half as good as their last one, we've a real treatinsstore.
They treat their animals quite badly.
These allegations are being treated very seriously indeed.
Parents still fend Io treat boys differently from girls.
Dan't treat me like a child! with He treated the idea with suspicion.
She was treated for cuts and bruises.
We can treat this condition quite successfully with antibiotics.
Chemically treated hoir can become dryand britle.
You need to treat this waod for woodworm.
She was ‘given the VIP treatment after winning gold for her country at the Sydney Olympics.
He claims he suffered ill-treatment at the hands of prison officers.
You shouldn't put up with such ‘shabby treatment.
The treatment meted out tocaptured soldiers was harsh.
She is still undergoing medical treatment.
Paramedics are ta have extra training in administering on-the-spot treatment.
When his depression warsened, he decided to seck treatment.
He responded well totreatment and is now walking again.
He's in treatment for cocaine addiction.
She s recelving treatment for a heart condition.
Galvanizing isa common surface treatment for steel.
September 1871 Japan entered into a commercial treaty with China.
All the members have vated ta ratify the treaty.
The new law may be in breach of the Treaty of Rome.
The treaty comes into force at midnight on December 31.
The trealy provides for UN inspection of all countrles' weapons systems.
The treaty hasdraton criticism from opposition groups.
Certain areas had been ceded by treaty.
Mexico ~ with The government concluded a peace treaty with the rebels.
In Some goods have almost trebled in price.
The figure has more than trebled to 67 per cent.
We sat beneatha shady tree.
It wasa small town of dust lanes and wide shade trees.
Im, oak, willow, etc.
Protesters formed a human blockade to stop loggers Jelling trees.
The floods left a tide of mud and uprooted trees.
An enormous ock tree stands at the entrance to the school.
Palm trees line the broad avenue.
Trees swayed gently in the breeze.
The tree produces tiny white blossoms.
Tree cover would prevent further soil erosion.
Above the treeline take a grassy path leading steeply towards the summit.
The tree belt around the fields acts as a windbreak.
The forest can be dated by studying tree rings.
He bought tools and seeds with the aim of setting upa treenursers.
We sat under a tree, in the shade.
The cat gotstuck upa tree.
The family made the long trek west in 1890.
The thought made him tremble inside.
She trembled at the thought of going back through those prison doors.
He felt a tiny tremor of ex: citement as he glimpsed the city lights.
Her expression sent an Icy tremor through him.
She felta tremor run down her back when she saw him.
He couldn’t control the tremor in his voice.
Ar uncontrollable tremor shook his mouth.
He managed to make his short speech without a tremor.
Despite this month's disappointing figures, the underlying trend is healthy.
The increase in crime in London was just part of a wider trend.
In the 19605, Britain set the fashion trends.
Jollowing the American trerd towards more flexible working conditions.
The data Indicates a trend towards earlier retirement.
Current trends suggest that car traffic will continue to grow.
The men claim they did not receive a fair trial.
The rebels were brutally executed after summary trials.
He never came 10 trial for the robbery.
Four peaple had been arrested and committed Jor trial.
He is in prison awaiting trial an drugs charges.
As a journalist he attended every murder trial of note.
The judge ordered a new trial on the grounds that evidence had been withheld.
The judge halted the trial when it emerged witnesses had been threatened.
Murdertrial told of horrificattack.
The trial collapsed after a ey prosecution witness admitted lying.
More than a hundred witnesses gave evldenceat the trial.
The letters that were shown during his trial turned out ta be fargeries.
She is presently an trial at the Old Bailey.
Opposition leaders had been jailed without trial.
The president Jfacestrial by television tanight when he takes part ina live debate.
She fuces trial for murder.
Three people aretostand trial over the deaths of a young couple.
If clinical trials are successful the drug cauld beon the market early nextyear.
Olympic, rowing, soccer, efc.
He had a trial with Chelsea when he was young.
The trial showed a dramatic reductian in side effects.
She agreed ta empiay me far a trial period.
They are treating therip s a trial run Jar their 500 mile sponsored ride later this month.
The coupleagreed on a trial separatian.
The new system will be introduced an a trial basis.
We discavered the ideal mixof paintby trialand error a tral of strength The dispute was regarded as a trial of strength by the unions.
She was asore trial to her family at times.
Use your protractor to construct an equilateral triangle.
Into I cut the sanduwiches into triangles.
Thedismissed warkers decided to gato a tribunal.
The case was referred toan industrial tribunal.
She tald thetribunal that shewasavictim of sex discriminatian.
The tribunal faund Jfar her emplayers (= judged that they wereright).
Thedisputewas settled by a ribunal.
The police gave evidence at the tribu nal.
No legal aid was available to caver representation before tribunals.
The fee for the player wilt bedecided by tribunal.
The Thames isfed by severalsmalltributaries.
Thousands of peaple stoad in silent tribute to the dead president.
Floral tributes were piled up outside the church.
The couple paid tribute ta the helicapter crewwha rescued them.
Theprimeminister led the tributes to'a great statesman and a decent man'.
Tributes flooded in when her deathwas annaunced.
The party chairman accused the appasition of dirty tricks in their election campaign.
We decided ta play a littl trick on the teacher.
She won'tfall for such a stupid trick.
He's learnt a trick ar two in his timeworking in the tax affice.
Of the trick of getting out red wine stains ~to There's na trick to it—you just need lats of practice.
The trick is to keep your body stilland your arms relaxed.
The flood of affers of help had dwindledtoa meretrickle.
Her finger tightened on the trigger s she heard foatsteps approaching.
Trim away the lower leaves.
We wenton a day trip to the seaside.
She's away on a business trip.
From here visitors can take a boat trip along the coast to Lundy Island.
He's just back from a trip to New York.
Tokyo PHRASES a trip abroad My last trip abroad was two yearsago.
The trip hame oak us five hours! the trip of a lifetime They saved for years or their trip of a Iifetime to Hawall.
Be careful or you'll trip up.
She tripped on the loose stones.
Don't leave toys on stairs where someonecoulg tripandjoll.
She came tripping lightly down the stairs.
Hollywood's favour826 ite actar was modest about his latest triumph.
The union scored a riumph in negotiating a minimum wage within the industry.
They hailed the signing of the ‘agreement asa major diplomatic triumph.
In~ The leading runner raised his arms in triumph.
The match wos a personal triumph for Rivaldo.
Her Wimbledon victory was hailed asa triumph over adversity.
She was confident that she would ultimately triumph over adversits.
The Democrats have emerged triumphantfrom the politicalcrisis.
There wasa positively triumphant note in her voice.
Hers is a moving and ultimately triumphant story.
Apparently trivial clues may turn outto be quite important.
The walter was pushing a laden sweet trolley towards our table.
Passengers with trolleys piled high with luggage waited at the check-in desk.
On many trains, refreshments are provided bya tralley service.
They are massing traops an the border.
The UN is sending peacekeeping troaps into the trouble spot.
The British Army has provided troops Jfor the UN all gver the world.
Five hundred traops were quartered in a village just behind the front line.
Allied troops were advancing on the capital.
Russian troops crossed into Austrian_territory.
Rebel troops stormed the presidential palace.
Various figures for UStroop presence in Europe were quoted.
Britain hasnotlifted the trophy since it last hosted the event.
Portugal will be defending the trophy they won last year.
He picked upa trophy for best newseditor.
When the horses reached the Jfield they broke intoa brisk trot.
He kicked his horse intoa trot.
He trotted off to greet the other guests.
Shetrotted quickly down the stairs.
The corpany is in desperate trouble financially.
He was obviously upset, and muttered something about girl friend troubie.
She knew that a hyglene inspection could spell trouble for her restaurant.
He /ias had back trouble since changing Jobs.
The firm soon ran into Jinancial trouble.
He put his past troubles behind him and built upa successful new career.
Trouble often comes when you're least expecting it.
When she saw the teacher coming towards her she knew she was in big trouble.
He got into trouble fornotdoing his homework.
I've had endless trouble with my car.
He s in trouble with the law again.
She has a history of back trouble.
He had a reputation for making trouble in the classroom.
He was asking for trouble when e insulted their country.
Fans wandered the town after thematch looking for trouble.
There was trouble brewing among the workforce.
Trouble blew up when the gang was refused entry to @ nightclub.
Extra journalists have been sent to the main trouble spots.
They went enormous trouble to make her stay a pleasantone.
We took the trouble to plan our route in advance.
Thank you very much for allyour trouble.
Growing your own vegetables is more trouble than it's worth.
This latest news troubled him decply.
He has been troubled with a knee injury.
She still felt vaguely troubled by it all.
He wasdeeply troubled by the news.
Inflation fell to a troughof 3.
Hedropped his trousers in a rude gesture.
He tucked his trouser bottoms into his socks.
He disapproves of women in trousers.
She often played truant and wrote her own sick notes.
The guerrillas have called a one-month truce.
The priest helped to negotiatea truce between the warring sides.
The fuoday truce collapsed in intense shellfire.
They renewed the war as soon as the truce expired.
He trudged wearily on down the road.
We trudgedslowly through the fields.
Her explonation doesn't ring quite true.
All her wishes came true.
It was like adream come true.
This is particularly trueaf older women.
It's perfectly true that I didr't help much, but I was busy.
While this is certainly true for some, its not true for others.
This degree of inequality was by ro means true of all Victorion marriages.
That's not true at all,* he said firmiy.
Ir's hordly true to call cleaning windows a ‘prafession’.
That's not strictly true, Pm afroid.
The story is more or less true.
She stayed true to her principles.
Vienna's trump cards include concerts in the palaces where Mozart ‘mademusic.
Some of the prisoners were beaten about the ‘head with rubber truncheons.
They accepted the responsibility as a sacred trust (= sth that had been trusted to them).
We have absolute trust in the teachers.
Does the scheme have the trust and cooperation.
He claimed the government had betrayed the trust of the British people.
In His trustin them was misplaced.
As a teacher; you ore ina position of trust.
The proceeds will be held in trust for the children until they are eighteen.
Wealthy people can set up overseas trusts for their children.
You can never en tirely trust evena ‘tame’ leopard.
Iuwas reluctantto trust the evidenceof my senses.
Istumbled along in the dark, trusting to luck to find the right door: with I'd trust her with my life.
They act asjoint trusteesof the fund.
They hold the land as trusteesfor the infant.
She takes everything she reads in the paper as gospel truth.
It still doesi't make sense to me—I don't think he's told us the whole truth.
The simple truth is he's ost his job.
There may have been a grain of truth in what he said.
Know S0 now you know the truth.
If the truth be known, I was afraid to tell anyone.
Tm rather dreading his retrn.
She was determined to discover the truth about her nelghbours.
The police doubt the truth of his statement.
We are examining the matter to see where the truth lies.
Towards the endof the letter the cruel truth emerged.
She laughed and chatted but was, in truth (= in fact), not having much fun.
Tknow you think she’s mean, but nothing could be further from the truth.
Thetruthof the matter is we can'tafford to keep all the staff on.
People will find out the true facts of situation even if you ry tokeep them secret.
We hold these truthsto be selfevident .
His evidence was a blend of smears, half truths and downright lies.
It's time we told him a few home truths about sharing a house.
She was forced to face up to a few unuwelcometruths about her family.
Idon’t think you are being entirely truthful.
Never mind—it was a good 3.
It looks difficult, but let's give it a try.
It may not work, butit's certainly wortha try.
She's having another try at themarathon.
He scored three tries against New Zealand.
She was frying desperately tostay afloat.
Sam was trying hard not tolaugh.
Can't you do it? Let metrs.
I've given up trying 1o persuade her: try your besthardestiutmost I tried iy best not to laugh.
He gave the lamb s food through a fube.
The children were safely fucked up in bed.
The boys tucked their shirts in.
The loos were discreetly tucked away be- ‘hind a screen of trees.
He tucked the map inside his shirt, into He tucked his trousers neatly into his boats.
She tucked the newspaper under her arm.
Al it needed was a good tug.
She started the engine with one tug of the starter rope.
She felt a sharp tug at her sleeve.
She gave a little tug on the rope.
He tugged harder, but it was caught Jast.
She fugged at his arm to get his attention.
He tugged me by the sieeve.
The students get expert tuition in small groups.
She had become expert in Chinese Cooking under the tuition of her aunt.
He is receiving tuition from a well-known artist.
He hummed a little tune as he washed the dishes.
She gave us a tune on the piano.
The kids were picking out a Ppopular tune on the ald piano.
He wasn’t allowed in the chair because he couldn’t hald a tune.
The crowd were singing *Give us jobs, not mare cuts” to the tune of ‘Happy Birthday To You'.
In Don't forget to tune in to our special election programmethisevening.
Ifuned to the BBCfor the late neuws.
He heard everything through a screen of interference, like on a badly tuned radio.
Stay tuned for the news.
The train disappeared into a tunnel.
They've bullt a new tunnel through the mountain.
The initial section of tunnel had to be dug by hand.
The badger sett had twelve entrances to what must have beena labyrinth of tunnels.
They stillcut turf here or fuel.
Weraise turkeys mainIy for the Christmas market.
Turkeys make a funny gobbling sound.
Her mind was in a state of constant tur- ‘mail.
He came 0 a stop, his chest heaving, his thoughts in turmotl.
Give the knoba turn.
She stopped talking as she negatiated a particularly sharp turn.
At every turn Imet with disappointment.
He made a sudden turn to the right.
Take the next turn an theright.
Can I have a turn?o I'litake aturn making the dinner—sou have a rest.
The children took turns on the swing.
If you con't put any cards dotwn youhavetomissa turn.
When my turn finally came, Iwas ‘shaking with nerves.
They gave their names in turn.
She had not been friendly to Pete and he, in his turn, was cold to her when she came to stay.
I'm writing to you out of turn because I have some very important news.
Her career tookan unexpected turn when she maved to New Yor'.
This movieis by turn (= alternately) terriJving and very funny.
Our luck is on the turn.
I'm afraid Grandma has takena turn for the worse.
This win could prove to be a historic turning point (= one that will be remembered) in the fortunes of the team.
The industrial revolution was a major histarical turning point (= a turning point in history).
In 1914 the world reached a turning Ppointinits history.
The furning point ‘came when reinfarcements arrived from the sauth.
The process of disarmament s at a crucial turning point.
We were chatting and overshot our turn-aff.
Voter turnout was high at the last election.
The concert attracted a large turnout.
The combined turnover of both businesses has doubled in the last two years.
Turnover was down compared with last year’s figures.
The firm's UK turnover increased (by) 30% ta£10million.
Turnover fell from £12million to £11 million.
Turnover reached $2 bilLion in the 12 manths to Sepiember.
The company's worldwide turnover exceeds 35 billian.
Inalthe~ He broke his leg ina tusslefor the ball.
Five teams are involved in the tussle for promation.
We are engoged in a legal tussle with a large pharmaceutical company.
I've got two tutorials today.
He gives ane lectureand two tutorials a week.
She had a slight Australian twang.
The words cameout with an Irish twang.
He broke off a twig from a willow tresand used it to shoo the flies away.
The sharp sound of a twlg smapping scared the badger away.
She watked away into the thickening rulight.
She had twin girls.
Give the cap another twist - it'snoton propery.
He finished him off with a quick twist of the knife.
The writer tokes well-known fairy tales and gives them an ironic twist.
The scandat has taken a new twist this week.
In a bi832 zarre twistto the evening the police came at leven and arrested our host.
She tuisted slightly in her chair to look up at him.
Gently twist off the green stalks.
She fired again and saw the creature twist violently.
His mauth tuisted bitterly.
Her black hair was twisted up into aknotan top of her head.
His face was twisted with rage.
The road tuists and turns along the coast.
He managed to twist ‘himself free.
Her mouth was twistedautof shape by grief.
His mouthgave aslight twitch.
He has a twitch in his right eye.
Her fingers twitched nervously.
His shoulders twitched with suppressed laughter.
In~ The recession s similar in type to that of ten years ago.
Thereare various types of daffodil(s).
This exercise is the hardest of its type.
City (= a person who works in finance in the City of London), creative, entrepreneurial, literary, old-fashioned The bar was crowded with City types in suits.
He was the oldfushioned type, wellrmannered and always in a suit and tie.
True to type, Adam turned up an hour late.
She’s not really my type—she’sa bit too serious.
The important words are in bold type.
He was sitting at his desk typing furiously.
I've written the report and will type it up next week.
She typed the details into the computer.
This letter was typed on an electronic typewriter.
The village was hit by @ typhoon.
The plantatlon was devastated by a typhoon.
In a/the~ His home was destroyed in a typhoon.
You must not take this attitude as typicalof English people.
They're going 1o be late? Now, isn't that just typical? [ by no means, not necessarily East Anglia is by no means typicalof rural Britain.
Julia isfairly typical of her age group.
An artist's need for money imposes the tyranny of popular taste.
The country had long been ruled by tyrants.
The kings of Sporta would not serve under the tyrants of Syracuse.
Someone let the tyres down overnight as ‘amean joke.
This car is fitted with radial tyres.
He was going so fast he blew a tyre.
He's patching the bike tyre that gota puncture yesterday.
Vandals had slashed the tyres and broken theside mirror.
The tyres crunched (0 a standstitl on the gravel.
Shebraked suddenly, her tyres squealing in protest.
He roared upthe crivewitha screech of tyres.
The witch was hideously ugly.
The government denled that it had presented the union with an ultimatum.
She let down her umbrella and furled it.
Hert’ is an umbrella term covering many typesof plant.
She was fast asleep under a big beach umbrella.
The two sectors combined ‘under the umbrella of the Scattish Council.
She found ‘herself unable to meet his gaze.
The accident left him unable to walk.
The road was deemed unable to cope with increased traffc.
He went on, apparently unable to stop.
Clare nodded, temporarily unable to speak.
He remained silent, unwilling or unable to say what was in his mind.
The cost of these proposed changes makes them unacceptable.
Most people would consider such risks ‘wholly unacceptable.
There is nothing inherently unacceptable in these proposals.
Sucha solution would be quite unacceptable to the majority of peaple.
She was seemingly unaffected by his presence.
He appeared fotally unaffected by this experience.
They were unanimous in this decision.
Theexperts are not unanimous on this point.
This latest incident makes his dismissal unavoidable.
They remained blissfully unaware of his true intentions.
She became mentally unbalanced after the accident.
The report is completely unbalanced.
They found the heat unbearable.
The French team looks unbeatable.
United remain unbeatableatthe topaf the League.
He now has an almost unbeatable lead over his rivals.
He seemed strangely uncertain as to how ta continue.
We were rather uncertain of the direction it camefrom.
Whether diet is an important facfor in this tiness is still uncertain.
InherentIy The world is inherently uncertain.
Cost estimates are notoriously uncertain in this business.
Her comments will add to the uncertainty of the situation.
Her comments will ‘add uncertainty to an already complicated situation.
They are facing some uncertainty about their jobs.
There's considerable uncertainty as to whether the government's job creation strategies will work.
One area of uncertainty remains:whowilllead the team?a feeling of uncer tainty, a period of uncertainty unchanged adj.
Iy, fundamentally The school appeared essentially unchanged sincemy day.
She was the only one of us unchanged by events.
The houses were totally uncharacteristic of the area.
The boss smiled at usall likea benevolent uncle.
Sharp stones on the path made walking barefoot rather uncomfortable.
Ifind these chairs incredibly un comjortable.
He started to get a bit uncomfortable as the conversation continued.
The way he looked at her made her distinctly uncomortable.
Planners seem a little uncomyortable with thecurrent government guidelines.
Such attitudes were not at all uncommon thirty years ago.
They appeared completely unconcerned ‘about what they had done.
He was apparently unconcerned by his failure to gain @ university place.
He was knocked unconscious by the impact.
The attack left her unconscious.
The question cannot be left undecided.
He isstill undecided about what todo.
They are undecided as to whether to buy a new car on The ‘government remains undecided on this issue.
He realized that he had serlously underestimated their strength.
Tre importanceof thesefeelings should not be underestimated.
In the ~ 7 always seem fo get lost in the underground.
The snake slithered off into the undergrowth.
The word ‘nof’ was heavily underlined.
This disaster merely underlines the need for a consistent foreign policy.
His position within the government has been seriously undermined.
He sat on the examination table in his underpants.
She realized that she had never properly understood him.
The reasons for this decision are rot easily understood.
She intuitively understood his need tobealone.
It i difJicult to understand why he reacted in that way.
We understand little about this disease.
Warning notices must be readily understandable.
He showed a full understanding of the sequence of events.
She has only a limited understanding of what the Job involves.
Some religlons havea common understanding of the natureof a divine being.
The students seem to have a reasonable level of understanding of how genes work.
This change of policy reflects a growing understanding of the extent of the problem.
The book aims to give children a balanced understanding of food, farming and the environment.
Hedidn't showmuch ‘understanding towards her when she lost her job.
Greater contact bettween the two groups should lead 1o a better mutual understanding.
The association fusters .
There is an unspoken understanding that Hugh will be in charge while Jane isaway.
They came to an understanding on when final payment was to be made.
To say he wasn’t amused must be the understatement of the year.
He gave an undertaking not to leave the country before the trial.
The factory failed to honour its undertaking to stop dumping waste into the local river.
Thearticle was fullof racist undertones.
Idon’tthink she's been told yet,’ he said in an undertone.
The couple at the next table were speaking in undertones.
She packed a fresh set of underwear and her toothbrush.
He was getting cold standing around in ‘hisunderwear.
She was a shady figure in the Dublin underworld.
It is clearly undesirabie for the issue to be ignored.
It was felt that the ageing of societywas socially and economically undesirable.
My bution'’s come undone again.
She felt undressed without her hat.
He got undressed and ready for bed.
They expressed thelr deep unease about the lack of security ar- ‘rangements.
Many felt unease about the ‘methods used.
He looked in vain for the source of his unease.
Ifelt distinctly uneasy about lending her so ‘much money.
The party's policies were popular among the unemployed.
Join the ranks of the unemployed.
As I was voluntarily unemployed, I wasn'tentitled to benefit.
Unemployment has hit unskilled workers in particular.
Unemployment climbed above tuwo million.
Unemployment averaged 15% across the country.
This former mining town is now an unemployment blackspot.
The unemployment trap exists when an unemployed person on ‘benefit would be worse off in a low-paid job.
Unemployment among graduates is Jalling steadily.
It happened in rather unexpected circumstances.
She thought it most unfair that girls were not allowed totake part.
The language was completely unfamiliar to me.
We were quite unfamiliar with the town.
She lived in a rather unfoshionable part of London.
The house was declared quite unfit for human habitation.
She was found unfitfor work.
It was a truly unforgettable experience.
It was a most unfortunate choice of expression.
These claims were not ltogether unfounded.
Shewas really unfriendly to me.
Bottling up your anger can only lead to unhappiness.
He expressed his unhoppiness about the arrangements.
She grew moreunhappy as the years went by.
She is deeply unhappy.
He described it s ‘a most unhappy and distressing case'.
He was equally unhappy with the alternative.
He sounded a bit unhappy about the extra work he had (0 do.
She was very unhappy at the idea of staying in London.
They were terribly unhappy with thearrangements.
At that time, it was completely unheard-of for girls to g0 to university.
He was sentenced to a hitherto unheard.
She was wearing the regulation uniform of tunic, hat and tie.
They wore the standard uniform of the well-to-do American out of office hours.
Aman in a uniform stopped us entering.
Fifty hames were declared uninhabitable.
The loud music made him feel totally uninhibited.
P'ma pretty uninhibited sartaf persan.
Doiphin sounds are unintelligible ta humans.
Same of the member states wanted a tighter union rather thar.
The Soviet Unian brake up after anlya few years of liberalization.
East Germary = See TRADE UNION unique adj.
The city has an atmosphere which isquite unigue.
Although such a case is rare, it is by no means unique.
The family is the basic unit of saciety.
Large departments were braken dawn inta smaller units.
Electricity is ten pence per unit.
The new manager changed a talented callectian af individuals into a cohesive unit.
She works in the maternity unit at the local haspital.
We're having new kitchen units installed.
The membersaf the team were absolutely united in their common goal.
Complete political unity is impossibleto achieve.
European, German, Irish, etc.
The party is calling for greater political and econamicunity in Eurape.
Te dispute has destroved unity among the workers.
In diversity The arganizatian promotes racial olerance and unity in diversity.
Some of the teach ers are technical specialists, but this is far fram universal.
These practices remain universal amang the islanders.
There s stiff campetitian far university places.
His aim was to Sfinish his dactarate and obtain a university chair.
All the staff are educated to university level.
She teaches English atthe University of Wales.
What the weather will be like on the day is, asalways, thegreat unknown.
Into the ~Motherhood was for her a journey info the unknown.
The championship was won by a completeunknown.
These sites remain largely unknown ta the British public.
His whereabouts were quite unknown during this period.
This drug was practically unknown in Britain.
She was then still comparatively unknown.
Gold was totally unknown to their civilizatior.
The takeover bid now looks unlikely to succeed.
He thought it unlikely that she would refuse.
This new technology opens up almost urlimited possibilities.
The number thirteen s traditionally considered unlucky.
She was desperatelyunluckytofallas badlyas shedid.
She has been very unlucky with injuries this year unmistakable cdj.
The main symptom is a scarlet rash that's quite unmistakable.
Her daughter’s accident had left her curiously unmoved.
No, no, that's quite unnecessary.
The ticket lay unnoticed in my desk drawer for a week.
His remark passed unnoticed.
There's a good chance my absence will go completely unnoticed.
Things started to get unpleasant when their nelghbours called ir.
He may ‘make life unpleasant for the rest of us.
The overall feeling was a strange mixture of sensations, not altogether unpleasant.
His clothes smelled pretty unpleasont.
He wasvery unpleasant toms friends.
His advanced views made him unpopular with manyaof the clerg.
Cuts in government expenditureare politically unpopular.
Highly priced shares are unpopular amons investors.
He's unpopular with the students.
Her clos relationship with the teacher increased her unpopularizyamong her schoolmates.
Heis totally unqualfied for the job.
Heseemed somehow unreal, a creature from anather world.
She fel curiously unreal, as if she were in the midstof adream.
She did not want to appear unreasonable.
His demands were ‘getting moreand more unreasonable.
This clause in the contract was held unreasonable.
He was totally unreasonable about it.
Tere was widespread industrial unrest in the north.
The murder of a boy by police sparked renewed unrest in the occupied zone.
The increase in fees sparked a new wave of student unrest.
The government's attempts to crush serious populor unrest led to cvilwar.
Many shops were looted during the unrest.
The children escaped unscathed.
Amazingly, the driver walked away from the accident completely unscathed.
The company came through the crisisapparently unscathed.
The town centre was left unscathed by the Fiots, unscrupulous adj.
In his desire for pouwer, he has become thoroughly unscrupulous.
Prison order is endered unstable by young inmates serving short sentences.
The building trode is notoriously unstable.
The buildingwas beginning to get unstable.
The wall was dargerously unstabe.
The huge proportions of the main rooms made the house unsuitable for conversion intoflats.
Many tasks wereconsidered unsultabiefor women.
His sudden changeaf heart left Brenda unsure once more.
If you're still unsure about what you are supposed to do, speak up! as to We were unsure as to what todonext.
Shewas rather unsure of her reception.
This would have been considered unthinkable only a decade ago.
Thiscourse of action would have been unthinkableto the Russian generals.
I've got more untidy since I stopped going out to work.
I'm afroid the house will have to stay untidy for now.
My son had left the studio very untids.
Books and magazines lying around make the place very untidy.
Everything was le, rather unused adj.
The church has lain empty and unused since 1994.
The meeting rooms are left unused for long periods.
He had ‘grown unused 1o this sort of attention.
She was quite unused to this way of life.
It was considered unusual for a gentleman's son (o study medicine.
This is a highly unusual case.
The arrival of a taxi was unusualenough; an unknown woman getting out of it was sensational.
If's unusualfor a woman todo this job.
The government has officially unveiled its plans for taxreform.
Thedeloy did seem unwarranted.
He complained of feeling unuwell.
Mine was a conventional family upbringing.
He had & normal middleclass upbringing.
Her upbringing hod given her the social skills tocope with such situations.
My upbringing prepared me for anything.
Part of his upbringing had been not to question his elders.
Tre reportglvesanupdate on the currency crisis.
We need anupdate tothe mailing list.
The road map has been fully updated.
Could you update me on how the work is progressing? with The files are continuously updated with ‘new information.
All the machines can be upgraded with the new processors.
The loss of his high-paying job caused enormous domestic upheaval.
He rose to power during the political upheaals of the 1990s.
Three judges unanimously upheld the sentence.
We are determined to uphold the law.
The IWC voted to uphold the ban on commercial whaling.
Our taxes help pay for the upkeep of the city's parks.
The local council is responsible for the upkeep of roads.
Slowly the boat came upright.
Polly jerked upright, wildeyed and_blinking.
The flag pole wouldn't stay upright.
Pulling himself upright, he squared his shoulders.
She held herself rigidly uprigh.
He was sitting bolt upright on his chair looking vers tense.
He was killed in the Warsaw uprising.
The trial proceeded amid uproor: in (anfthe) ~ Financial markets were in uproar after the crash of the rouble.
There was a great uproar over plans to pull down the old library.
We had our first major upset when Rogers was taken off with a leg injury.
Ske was sensitiveand easily upset.
I'm sorry—I didr't mean to upset you.
This decision is likely to upset a lot of peaple.
The incident hod left him visibly angry and upset.
He was upset at ‘missing cll the excitement.
Try to laugh atit instead of getting uptight.
He's feeling a bit uptight about his exam tomorrow.
We'll have to bring our equipment up-todate.
Today’s holiday porks are bang up to-date.
It is difficult to keep up-to-date withall the developments.
Bring me up-to-date on their progress.
We ‘can keep you fully up-to-dote with your financial position.
Their fortunes have taken an upturn in recent months.
We expect an increase in de- ‘mand when the economic upturn eventually comes.
Jelt a sudden urge to smash the teapot against the wall.
She resisted the urge to kiss him.
He overcame his urge torun from theroom.
Leaving him off the guest list satisfied her urge for revenge.
He has repeotedly urged the government to do something about this.
The murders have given added urgency to the debate about inner-city crime.
There was a note of urgency in her voice.
The bomb attack lenta new urgencyto the pecce talks.
We need t0 act with urgency to ensure his safety.
We waited in the cor while he checked his tyres with an irritating lack of urgency.
The refugee situation must now be addressedasamatier of urgency.
Can you come to the phone—it sounds urgent.
Don’t forget that one, it's rather urgent.
Igagged on thestench of stale urine.
He said he leaked urine when he coughe.
With normal usage, the equipment should last at least five years.
Drug usage by teenagers has increased in recentyears.
Usage of computers in schools is increasing.
That word is no longer in common usage.
Actual usoge of the word is different from the meaning given in the dictionary.
The term ‘ecttourism' entered common usage in the 19%0s.
He made full use of the opportunity to travel.
This softwareisnolonger incommon use.
Holding a lavish party was not the best use of scarce funds.
Guests have free use of the hotel swimming pool.
Only half the land wasfit for immediate use.
Drug use in this age group is on the increase.
We made use of the car while you were away.
Theexpression went out of use some time ogo.
This phone number is only for use in an ‘emergency.
Thephone is in constant use.
Thismodel has been designedfor greater ease of use.
The record is intended for useas background music.
This room is now ready for use.
This herb has a variety of uses.
Don’t throw that bax away—I'm sure I could put it to some use.
Since his stroke he hasn't had the useaf his left hand.
They denied us use of the college library.
After a while she regained the use of her fingers.
She last the use of her legs ina cor accident.
Ihave no use for my golf clubs any more.
Is of no practical use to me.
This paint is very expensive, so please use it sparingly.
Theoil hadall been used up.
These garden shearsarelightweight and easy touse.
Candidates are rot allowed to use dictionariesintheexam.
The board game looked used.
Don't worrs, you'll soon get used to your new school.
She ‘had graduallygrown usedto him.
She told Fred to make himself useful.
In all departments, Leeds looked a more than useful side (= they played very well).
The same information is equally useful when negotiating.
This method has proved the most generally useful.
The subject is practically useful and will stand you in good stead when looking for a job.
She was very useful in dealing with forelgn visitors.
The advisory group has outlived its usefulness.
The theory is of limited usefulness.
The report is of ‘potential usefulness to the government useless ad).
Her efforts ta avoid him proved useless.
The condition rendered her legs virtually useless.
They rejected the designs as useless.
There are two manuals, both of them equally useless.
The land is useless or cattle.
This drug s useless in the treatment of patients with Aids.
The information wasuseless to him.
I'mpretty useless at this job.
The larger users of the service have to pay mare.
Existing users will be able to upgrade their software at a reduced price.
They offer a short course to firsttime users of the software.
Don't worry—it's quite usual fo have afew problems atfirst.
This kind of behaviour isfar from usual in children of thisage.
It's usual for the man to propose marriage.
Everyone blamed me as per usual.
Steve, as usual, was the last to arrive.
Ir's ‘business as usual at the factary, even while investigators sift through the bomb wreckage.
The metalcan then be painted in the usual wa.
He argued that the arts hhave great social utility.
The new computer system isnot being fully utilized yet.
Concrete fad long been utilized as a bonding and covering material.
The government has made spectacular U-turn on taxes.
The ogency will let you know if they have any suitable vacancies.
Her going on ‘maternity leave will create a temporary vacancy.
The affice of president had been left vacant since her retirement.
The job will be kept vacant for a few more weeks.
The polio vaccine has saved millions of lives.
The vaccine protects children against tuberculosis.
Researchers are trying to develop a vaccineagainst the disease.
The writer criticized the moral vacuum in society.
Her resig- ‘nation left ¢ power vacuum in the government.
The machine then creates a vacuum.
Other gases rush in to fill the vacuum.
Where did you leave it?' Isobel looked vague.
The identityof thecity in the novel isdeliberately left vague.
Her directions were hopelessly vague.
You're being deliberately vague.
Since the officers kneuw little themSelves thelr reassurances were necessarily vague.
The law is notoriously vagueon this point.
Ihad acquired the money.
The statement was vague inits wording.
The orlginal written contract was held valid.
We accepted several different approaches as valid.
This is a perfectly valid question to raise.
Thatargument is not strictly valid in this case.
The old assumptions re no longer valid.
The thecry has the fuce validity of being consistent with recent findings.
His reputation lends acertain validity to theapproach that it might not deserve.
The judges upheld the validity f the previous judgement.
The results are of doubiful validity.
The cottage was in a wooded volley.
He ‘showed valour and skill on the battlefield.
They have skills and qualities which make them highly valuable.
The subject could be equally valuable for scientists.
The Romantics believed that the lfe of the imagination was intrinsically valuable.
The survey vas valuable as an indicator of local opinian.
Good eyesight is a quality whick is extremely valuable for ¢ hunting animal.
At yesterday's auction an old coinsold for many times more than its face value of 20 pence.
Dra- ‘maticdevelopments on the stock market tripled the valueof his shares.
The piano has helditsvalue.
The land has dropped in value.
Jewelery 10 the value of @ mittion pounds was stolen last night.
Though a little more expensive, the larger model gives better valuefor money.
Fis pubtished accountaf his travels s of dubious vatue to other explorers.
Therealvaluef the book lies in itswonderful characterization.
Of~ He didn't say anything of value.
Pottery fragments areaf great value oarchacologists.
By our moral values.
The party's election camPpaign emphasized its belief in family values.
They hold very middleclass values.
The company has recently been valued at S6billion.
Housework is negatively valued as a retreat from a disliked alternative—employment work.
He hated 10 be valued for his looks alone.
Our shares became completely valueless qvernight.
The plumber will it some newsafety valves.
Carvandals caused more than £10 000 worthof damagetavehicles last Saturday.
The windows are covered with grilles to deter vandals.
Her feelings of shyness rapidly vanished.
All thoughts of romance vanished from his ‘mind.
At stroke she could make thingsvanish into thin air.
Many of these old cinemas have now vanished altogether.
The people who built this temple have long since vanished.
This plant is vanishing from the British countryside.
My suggestion appealed to her vanity.
There wasa hissingsound, and clouds of vapour were emitted.
The particles then form avapour.
There is considerable variability in all the testscores.
Polar habitats are harsh and highly variabie.
These systems are infinitely variable.
She is studying language variation across the soctal range.
There is little variation by sex or social class in these attitudes.
There may be striking variations within a species.
His numerous complaints areall variations ona theme.
The market sold a bewildering varety of cheeses.
Dealing with customers adds variety to the job.
There is wide variety in shape and colour.
Menus offer a good variety of seafood.
There are hundreds of different varieties of apple.
Old varietles of rose can be less resistant todiseases.
The table needed two coats of varnish.
Apply the varnish evenly over thewhole surface.
The sword hardly varied in form from the 12th (0 the 15th century.
What can be Jfound will inevitably vary according 1o the area under study.
Personal preference naturalIy varies.
Dictionaries are produced with specific markets in mind, and their contents vary accordingly.
The availability of ‘good medical care tends to vary inversely with the need for it.
Voting behaviour varies geographically.
Prices can vary enormously.
The leaf's size varies widely according to the area where it grows.
Services offered vary among the main high street banks.
The rate of growth varies considerably between different industries.
The doses used for surgical anaesthesia vary betuween 2 and 10mg/Kg.
Access to this information varies by social class.
Costs are likely to vary depending on where you live.
The situation varies slightly from country to countrs.
Its speed varies from 20 mph to 35 mph.
The rooms vary in size.
The jewels were kept ina bank vault.
She is i be buried in the Samily vault.
The ship veered round wildly in the rough sea.
The plane veered away to the left.
He veered between calm acceptanceand hysterical accusations.
The play veers from loopy comedy to serious moralizing.
The car veered off the road.
The path veers sharply tothe right.
He veered left towards them.
The children don't eat enough green vegetables.
They grow all their own vegetables.
They are strict vegetarians.
All our cheeses are suitable for vegetarians.
As we drove towards the desert, the vegetation becarme sparse.
Removalof the ‘natural vegetation has resulted in a loss of nutrients in the soil.
The hills are covered in lush green vegetation.
She wos blinded by the lights from an oncoming vehicle.
The bus crashed into stationary vehicle.
The thieves escaped in a stolen vehicle.
T'he city centre is of-limits to wheeled vehicles.
The president's car was being followed bya convoy of vehicles.
The vekicle was impounded as part of the police investigation.
Sniffer dogs were brought in to follow the men after they abandoned the vehicle ina ditch.
An eyewitness said, ‘We saw loads of smake.
Two drivers es caped injury when their vehicles collided near Thirsk.
The play is a perfect vehicle for her falents.
The Students’ Union is the maln vehicle of communtcation for studentsin the college.
The bridal vetl was fringed with lace.
The government has decided to liftthe wveil an its plans.
Thework is carried out behind aveil of secrecy.
She uses makeup (o hide the thread veins ir her cheeks.
The veins stood outon her throatand temples.
The writer tapped into a rich vein of humour inthe play.
Fortunately, the rest of the evening continued in a lighter vein.
Eventually, thestar attained the velocity of light.
Light travels ata constant velocity.
For years he pursued a vendetia against the Morris family.
They havestripped the veneer of jingoism from the play, by showing war in its true horror.
For the first time her veneer of politeness began tocrack.
They're brutal people behind their civilized veneer.
She is determined to wreak vengeance on those who killed her cousin.
They sought vengeance against the countries that had humiliated France in 1514.
He silently vowed vengeance on them all.
The snake injects the venom immediately after biting its prey.
She surveyed him coldly with eves thatspat venom.
Sheaid it quickly and with venom.
There are two types of mollusc that are actively venomous.
Air passes througha vent.
Make sure that the room is well ventilated.
The directars of the company refused to undertake such a risky venture.
The company has set up @ joint venture with a firm in Austria.
His son Mark will bejoining him in the new venture.
She ventured cautiously into the room.
Some of the men ventured further out to sea.
She would nat have dared venture herealone.
They rarely ventured beyond their local market town.
The match will be played at a neutral venue.
The Holiday Inn provided the venue for this year’s conference.
Themusical has been packing out venues around the world.
The meeting will be held at a venue in the south of thecity.
She has performed in venues around Europe.
The hall is a popular venue for weddings.
In this essay he has used the same ‘verts over andover again.
Government can takea singular or plural verb.
The subject doesn't agrecwith thevert.
Add an ending tomakethe verbagree with the subject.
The jury returned a formal verdict after direction by the judge.
They reached a verdict after hours of deliberation.
The verdict was delivered in frontof @ packed courtroom.
The coroner recorded a verdict of accidental death.
His fomilyaluays insisted that the original ‘guilty’ verdict ‘Should beoverturned.
The verdict was upheld at appeal.
The panel will give its final verdict tomorrow.
The unanimous verdict was that the picnic had been a great success.
This action brought the country to the verge of economic collapse.
She was on the verge of a nervous breakdown when she finally sought help.
The credit card is then accepted, subJect toverification of the signature.
Formers regard foxes asvermin.
This machineis amazingly versatile.
The netw version comesoutin June.
Keep a copy of the rough version of your essay.
This s the official version of the painter's biography.
The fitm version does ot live up to the original novel.
In althe ~ The chidren read the novel in its abridged version.
Only one newspaper printed the full version of the speech.
He was accused of operating the vessel while drunk.
The vessel was registered in Bermuda.
The captain of the boat wos accused of ram- ‘ming a patrol vessel.
Police boarded and searched the vessel.
Huge waves suwamped the vessel.
The damaged vessel sailed on for another s0miles.
The vessel finally made portafter thirty doys atsea.
The vessel carried a crew of 130.
The vessel flooded ard began tosink.
They managed to houl the surwivors aboard the vessel.
Tt is a scientific fact that empty vessels make the most noise.
The government has to remove any last vestiges of corruption.
I'm struggling to retoin any vestigeof beliefin his innocence.
Heshowed novestigeof remorsefor his crime.
He looked at her without a vestige of sympathy.
We had to take the dog to the local vet.
All goods cre carefully vetted for quallty before they leave the factory.
We are introducing new security vetting procedures.
Vietnam, World War Two, etc.
He's the seasoned veteran, who has taken the children to the museum many fimes.
The board can exerciseits veto to prevent thedecisior.
The Senate voted to override the president's veto.
The nobles had @ virtual veto against peasant candidates.
The Opposition effectively havea veto on constitutional reform.
She is very negative about the long-term viabilityof the project.
Once the railways had proved their viability expansion was rapid.
The company has questioned the commercial viobility of the mine.
Nore of the projects proved financially viable.
It is only their investment that makes the programme economically viable.
The thuds vibrated through the car.
The atmosphere seemed to vibrate with tension.
Certain animals can feel vibrations in the sand.
Their instruments can detect the slightestvibration.
Indulge (in) He used his inheritance io indulge his vices of drinkingand gambling.
In the~(of) There is no hospital in the immediate vicinity.
The computer wars are going to get vicious over the nextfew years.
Fe defrauded his innocent victims of millions of pounds.
Tourists are easy victims for pickpockets.
In his fantasies, women became passive and sometimes even willing victims.
The intended victims were selected because they seemed vulnerabl.
The government is sending ald to flood victims.
She's c fashion victim (= wears the newest fashions even if they donot suither).
In his trial, he tried to portray himself as the victim of an uncaring soctety.
The train crash claimed its tenth victim yesterday when the driver died in hospital.
The cut in benefts for the unemployed is a classic case of blaming the victim.
They were the victims of a cruel hoax.
Unfortunately, she fell victim to an unscrupulous landlord.
The team emerged as worthy victors.
The French pair fought back to finish 1o Sets to one victors over the Williams sisters.
Osborne emerged viciorious after the secondround of voting.
Against all the odds, Frederick ITwas ultimately victorious.
The Reds were victorious over the Whites.
His party won a landslidevictory in theelections.
They would do whatever lay in their power to ensure victory for themselves.
The Hungarians pulled off a surprise victory against the Italian champions.
The England cricket team as tasted victory for the first time this season.
Union leaders hailed the socialists’ victory as a huge step forward.
The outcome left both sides claiming victory.
The Dutch champions were denied victory in a tough 2-2draw at Porto.
Fascism~tor Thecase was hailed as a victory for the commer: man.
The jury watched video footage of the riots.
The band are in Iceland doing @ video shoot.
Thefilm s already outon video.
They sell both blank and pre-recorded videos.
An amateur video of the crash failed 10 reveal the cause.
They produce educational videos for learning languages.
The group's new video will be released next month.
We rent videos out nearly every weekend.
The chil dren can st for hours watching videos.
Their teacher showed them a video about the Romans.
Film can also be copled onto videotape.
The videotape of the attack caused outrage when it was screened on the neus.
Tre prevailing view s that he has done a good job in difficult circumstances.
The debate brings together experts with conflicting vieus.
He's a doctor with clear views on how to prevent liness.
Her rosy view of life abroad seems rather naive.
After his experience in jail, he has a pretty Jaundiced view of the penal system.
The conventional view is that work is pleasant and rewarding.
The meeting gave everyone the chance (o air their views.
She picked up the phone and made her views known 1o her boss.
At the meeting, we hope people will exchange views freely.
He called @ meeting 1o solicit the views of his staff.
His letter (o the management did not reflect the views of his colleagues.
In your~ In my view it was a waste of time.
Teachers generally keep their views about politics hidden.
Experts hold widely differing views on this subject.
If'sgood to havea full and frank exchange of views.
From a teacher’s point of view.
My mother takes a pretty dim vlew of mycooking skill.
Tensions within the band remained hidden from public view.
Thestaff handbook gives an overallview of the company.
The pillar prevented me getting a clear viewof the action.
The patio gave an unimpeded view across the headland to the sea.
They stod waving on the plat Jorm, until the train disappeared from view.
In~ There was nobody in view.
The carriage was put on viewfor the publictosee.
He was shotin full view of alargecroud.
Most rooms enjoy panoramic views of the sea.
The large windous give fine views of the surrounding countryside.
These results should be viewed cautiously.
Try fo view the situation objectively.
This behaviour is not viewed as acceptabe.
American perspectivewith They tend 1o view foreigners with suspicion.
He s widely viewed as a possible prime minister.
While fewer people are attending football matches, armchair viewers are growing innumber.
The evening news is tochange its serious image in a bid toattract more viewers.
The new sitcom has been a smash hit with viewers.
The announcer informed viewers that programmes would be running late.
Itis estimated that four million viewers watched the programme.
Hundreds of viewsers poned in to complainafter the show.
The magazine likes to publish articles with alternative viewpoinss.
He aluays takes the opposite viewpoint to the restof the group.
He quoted recent test results to support his viewpoint.
Seen from the studen('s viewpoint, the oral exam can be frightening.
From the viewpoint of teachers, there has been agreat increase in work.
From a purely commercial viewpoint, the film wasa failure.
Since the accident, the boy’s parents have kept a constant vigil at his bedside.
For three nights, the shepherd maintained his lonely vigil.
Protesters held a candlelit vigil against the war.
You should exercise extra vigilance about locking your car properly.
The birds cannot afford to relax their vigilance against predators.
Guaranteeing the safety of students requires continued vigilance on the partof teachers.
The organization is ever vigilant for (hreats to the habitats of birds.
Be extra vigilant about what you eat or drink.
You need to be vigilant against garden.
The group is not vigorous enough in its opposition to the proposals.
She was a wonderful, bubbly girl, full of vigour: vim and vigour He set to his task with reneted vim and vigour.
Technology has turned the world into a global village.
The flood affected the town and surrounding villages.
She married a man from her home village.
They live in afarming village.
Our cottageis just outside the village.
Sheseems tohave cast me as the villain in her latest emotional upheaval.
He has played villains in most of his films.
The police still haven't nailed the villain.
He changed his story tomake his wife appear the villain of the piece.
They have flagrantly violated the treaty.
The peace of theisland community had been brutally violated.
The army was accused of committing violations against the accord.
This action constitutes a violation of international la.
There is plenty of evidence that her actians were in violation of an earlier contract.
There are fears of fresh violence If the strike continues.
Letzers poured in complaining about the gratuitous violence on the show.
The peasants believed their only choice was to resort to violence.
Under no circumstances should police use violence against protesters.
She had suffered years of violence and.
The enthusiasm of the protest spilled over into violence.
Troops were called in to quell the violence.
We are all capable af violence in certain circumstances.
Violence erupted outside the prison last night.
The demonstration was marred by violence.
Any act of violence against another player must be punished.
The former leader of the terrorist group has called Jfor an end to the violence.
The police are bracing themselves for an outbreak of violence.
It was a previsa dictable death for a man who had lived a life of violence.
He had a short temper and was ~prone tooutbursis of violence.
In violence, a victim of violence a refuge for victims of domestic violence violence begets/breeds violence We have to make people realize that violence only begets more violence.
He kissed her with suppressed violence.
She started to get a bit violent.
He was violent towards his wife on several occasions.
Hefelta strong, almostviolent, diske for the stranger.
The cello is a ‘member of the violin family.
Tiere is no inherent virtue in having read all the latest books.
She has just ane, negative virtue—she never tells lies.
The brochure makes a pasitive virtue of the island's isolated position.
He understands the traditional virtue of hard work.
Aids, flu, hepatitis, herpes, HIV, measles, etc.
An infected person can passthe virus toathers.
The virus attacks a varety of cells in the bod.
She was refused a visa because of her criminal record.
Her visa expired sixmonths ago.
Sheentered the country ona studentvisa.
The sand in the air reduced visibility to a hundred yards.
Visibility was down to 25 yards.
Weset a course in good visibility and calm seas.
We aim to raise thevisibility of ethnic minarities in our organization.
The scars re- ‘mained vistble all her Iif.
We cut the trees down to make the lake visible from the house.
His relief was all too visible.
The election poster was clearly visible from the street.
Haly has a highly visible environmental move- ‘ment.
Thesed was now out, leaving the wreck Jully visible.
The mountains were just visible, dusky and black.
The low; flat baats were barely visible.
She stood, half visible in the dim light.
Women are ‘advised to wait where they are not immediately visible to approaching traffic.
Its contents were visible 1o atlof them.
The eye test shows she has perfect vision.
The rain prevented ‘her having clear vision af the road ahead.
The high driving position gives excellent all-round vision.
Icar read without glasses, but my distance visian ispoor.
Useyour peripheral vislon widely when maving fram place to place.
Trhetears blurred her vision.
Her vision cleared and she realized Niall was standing bestde her.
She was awareof shapes ‘movingacross her field of vision.
Somene was standing in my line of vision so I couldn't see the screen.
The word ‘island conjures up a vision of a relaxing summer oliday.
As he approached, the vision faded and there was noane there.
The company nieds to develop a glabal vision.
The engineers had a clear vision of what they wanted ta achieve.
They share a common vision for the development of health services.
He outlined his vision for the new econiomic order.
The new leader sei about imposing his vision on the party.
He was determined not to let emations cloud his vision.
His plans for the country's Jfuture show a remarkable breadth of vision.
She enjoyed the frequent visits of her grandchildren.
The prime minister has been bricfed in preparation for his forthcaming visit to China.
Exchange visits betueen company and School have kept the project going.
They came ta visit last week, and we'll pay them a return visit in the autumn.
Following her letter of complairt, she recelved a personal visit from the store manager.
You should receive a home visit from your miduwife within a manth.
While on holiday in Ttaly, the prime minister paid a courtesy visit to his oppasite number in Rome.
Pay us a visit next time you're in town.
I'd been looking forward to my cousir’s visit for ages.
He wos forced to cut short visit to North America.
He offered her a drink to i1y to prolong her visit.
We received a letrer announcing a visit from government inspectors.
If you're staying in Rome, Ostia is wetl worth avisit.
Theuisit signalled the normalization of relations between the two countries.
On one of her regular visits home, she told her parents she was engaged.
We had a visit from somebody collecting for charity.
We've just been to visit my grandparents.
Tion peopleare expected tovisit the museumover thenext 12 ‘months.
First-time visitors fo Spain are often surprised by how late people eat.
The latest crime figures are likely to put off prospective visitors to the city.
The baby's weight is monitored ‘bythe health visitor.
The house was tidy and I could see he was expecting visitors.
The front room was used mainly for entertaining visitors.
The lack of facilities in the town may deter the casual visitor.
The college only admis visitors in organized groups.
Pick up a free ‘map of the town from the visitor centre.
Visitors from Ireland will find much that reminds them of home.
It is difficult to visualize how the town must have looked years ago.
Isvitalfor success to These nutrients areabsolutely vital to good health.
He came back from his holiday bursting withvitality and good health.
Thedoctor old me to toke vitamins regularly.
Most foods contain vitamin .
In Fish srich in vitamins and minerals.
Vitamin C deficiency con ultimately lead toscurty.
She uses quite vivid colours.
English has a rich vocabulary and literature.
Learners of languages acquire vocabulary through practice.
This book has been designed to help you expand your vocabulary.
The word ‘think tank entered the vocabulary (= became part of the language) in the 19615.
Spacialized vocabulary is used in all the major disciplines.
The word failure'is not in his vocabulary (= for him, failure does not exist).
He is desperate to pursue his vocation as an artist.
She feels that shemissed her vocation by not working with children.
Sheseems to havea vocation for healing.
This is a job that de- ‘mands a senseof vocation.
Cycling enjoyed a vogue a the endof the nineteenth century.
Scooters have recently come back into vogue.
Disaster movies are currently out of vogue.
She ‘has a beautlful singing voice.
An inner voice told him that what he had done was wrong.
She's a teacher who never has to raise her voice to discipline the children.
You're shouting—please lower your voice.
She's lost her voice and won't be able to sing tonight.
He swallowed nervously os he tried to find his voice.
Sheputon asilly voiceas she imitated her boss.
His voice rose in angry protest.
So he wor't come .
Her voice was filled with emotion.
His voice suddenly thickened with emotion.
Her voice echoed through the silent house.
Be quiet!" a voice whispered in his ear.
Who is it7 a female voice called out.
She was dimly aware of voices shouting.
His voice broke with emotion.
The flat, unemotional voice droned on.
Get out” she shouted in shrill voice.
Therewasfury in his woice as he answered her.
They could hear a loud babble of voices coming from the crowded bar: in good voice ‘The home funs were in good voice (= making a 1oud noise) before the match.
She was in good oice (= singing well) at the concert tonight.
Please keep your voice down 50 05 not to wake the children.
Voice levelisteady He managed to keep his voice steady despite his feelings of panic.
Do you hove to speak tome in that tone of voice?” she aid sadly.
Dissenting voices at the newspaper arevery rare.
Powerul voices in the Senate are determined to bring down the president.
Refugees have been unable to find @ voice in politics.
Many senior politicians have lent their voices to the campaign.
The magozine gave voice to hundreds of oppressed factory workers.
The teachers speak with one voice when they de- ‘mand an end tothe cuts.
It seemed that nothing could Sfillthe aching black void left by Rachel's death.
The election was declared null and void.
An active tolcano may erupt atany time.
She hit a forehand volley into the net.
Cole lashed home 20:yard volley.
On the ~ Figo met the ball on the volley and scored.
Most house lighting runs at the full mains voltage of 240volts.
Themotor operates ot low voltages.
They sell screws and natls by olume.
The sheer volume of fiction produced is staggering.
Sales have doubled in volume.
Sales volume hasdoubled since 1999.
Thecar stereo was on atfull volume.
Her poems are now available in asingle volume.
The encyclopedia isa huge work, running to 20volumes.
The organization is runona purelyvoluntary basis.
Theoffice isstaffed by unpaid volunteers.
An army of volunteers cooked meals for the children.
The charity is appealing for volunteers to take elderly patients to and from hospitai.
We car’t get any volunteers to help in the gardens.
The local community provided volunteers to repair the road.
Hundreds of vok unteers have come forward to offer their help.
The support our volunteers provide cannot be measured in purely practical terms.
Heworked as a volunteer for Oxfam.
Barbara Forrest has kindly volunteered to lead a guided walk to Boltan Abbey.
We volunteered as witnesses.
Corbett leaned agoinst the wall and promptly vomited.
Hevomited up all that he ‘had eaten for lunch.
The smell made me want to vomit.
They gave her salty water to make her vomit.
The symptams include headaches, nausea and vomiting.
Members of Partiament will have a free vote on this bill.
The single transferable vote system operates.
The law wos ratified by popular vote.
He voucher lost the election because of the protest vote.
The unian wants the system of block vates ta con tinue.
We should put the resolution to the vote.
Let's take a vote on the issue.
Thechairperson aliways has the casting vote.
You can cast your vote at the local polling station.
Our candidate polled only 10% of the vate.
Votes are still being counted.
The party's vote fel by 6%.
The bill was passed by asingle vote.
Members are elected by direct vote.
The ‘government recelved a massive vote of confidence from the electorate.
The commitiee voted unanimously ta accept the pians.
The Senate voted narrowly to continue funding the scheme.
The proposals were formally voted upon.
Theprapasal was voted dotn.
They voted averwhelmingly against the proposal.
They all voted for the new tox.
She returned home in order to vote in the elections.
The committee vated in favaur of the plan.
They voted I5t0 210 accept the offer with Her party voted with the government.
She was elected on the second round of voting.
Conservative, Labour, Republican, atc.
They voted yes to the agreement.
Only a quarter of registered voters actually voted in the election.
In this electian, voters chose candidates who promised economic security.
More than two million voters participated in the election.
Voter turnout was very low.
The Opposition alleged voter intimidation by the arms.
The company issues travel vouchers to all managers.
Igota credit voucher for £30.
She lef the convent before taking her final vows.
He made a vow (o avenge his Jather's death.
She kept her vow of silence until she died.
Nothing will persuode me to break this vow.
The couple exchanged vows at the altar.
He silently vowed vengeance on themall.
She vowed to herself that she would not show any emoticn.
This neutral vouwel is known as ‘schwa’.
Lady Franklin kepta journal dur ing the voyage.
There were mainly scientists on thevoyage.
The Titanicsank in April 19120n its maiden voyage from Southampton to New York.
Going tocollegecan be a voyage of discovers.
The earthquake highlighted the vulnerability of elevated highways.
The gang hod taken advantage f the immigrants’ vulnerabili.
You must trynot to appear vulnerable.
She is very sensitive and rather vulnerable.
Hippos areuniquely vulnerable todrought.
He smiled, making her suddenly feel oddly vulnerabie.
The company isin an economically vulnerable position.
These offices are highly vulnerable to terrorist attack.
Vultures circled overhead as the lions fed.
We waded across the stream.
The night air wafted gently over them.
He busked to supplement his meagre wages.
If money wages remain constant and price levels rise, real wages fall.
She earns a good wage at the factors.
Full employment pushed up wages.
The ‘union submitted a wageclaim for a 9% rise.
The government promised greater tax cuts in return for continued wage restraints.
He zot his first wage ‘packetatfourteen years old.
Wecould fust hear thedistant watlof asiren.
With a wail he threw himself on the bed and burted his fuce in the pillow.
She gave a watlof anguish.
She wailed with despair.
She wore a broad belt about her waist.
Where we were standing, the lake was waist-deep.
These jeans havea 32-inch waist.
Low-fat foods are ideal for peoplewho are watching their waistline.
The accused faces an ‘agonizing walt while the jury considers ts verdict.
The dress was so beautiful when itarrived that it was well worth the wait.
They waited in vainfor aresponse.
Iy, polltaly He waited patiently while she got ready.
Their parents waited anxiously for news.
Jor what would happen next.
You'll have to wait until you'reolder.
I'm waiting for a bus.
We'll have to wait until it stops raining.
Hey! Wait @ minute! I'll come with you! wait and see We'll wait and sce what the weather’s like before we make a decision.
She ordered a large vodka and tonic from a passing waiter.
He didn’t fancy spending hours i the restauront, surrounded by hovering waiters.
Lunch is a bufJet meal, whiledinner is waiter service.
She had woken even earlier than usual.
Iwokeupquite late this morning.
She had just woken upfrom a deep sleep.
Any minute now she'd wake up tofind herself at home safein bed.
She woke with a startfrom a terrible nightmare.
If's & go0od (= fairly long) walk to the (own centre, 50 I usually cycle.
We went for a long walk after breakfost.
He's done severat long-distance walks for charity.
We live just a few minutes' walk from the station.
The doctor advised a brisk walk everyday.
She used (o enjoy solitary walks along the clifs.
We went on a guided walk of the ity in the afternoon.
The book contains circular walksyoucandoin half aday.
We'll go Jor @ walk before lunch.
We went on a ten-mile walk along the coast.
She takes her dog for a walk every evening.
They broke their walk at a pub by theriver.
The walk takes tuwo hours.
The walk takes you past a lot of interesting buildings.
He met her on one of his Sunday afternoon walks.
Ll amentties are within an easy walk of the hotel.
She dida silly walk 10 amuse her friends.
He has a mincing walk, fast with short steps.
The ‘horses setoff ata walk.
She had no sandals and walked barefoot.
Jake was walking some way ahead.
They built G retaining wall around the pond.
If a load-bearing wall is weakened, the building could fall down.
The burglars must havescaled the side wall.
She covered her walls with pictures of film stars.
She leant against the woll.
Nobody can see behind the wall.
She hung the photos on the wall.
Hecarried a photo of his children in his wallet.
The cottle are allowed to wender Jreely.
One day she wandered further afield.
He just wandered in one day and asked fora job.
Visitors arefree to wonder through the gardens and woods.
He wandered into a bar and ordered a drink.
They found him wandering around aimlessly.
His attention was beginning to wander.
Lissa let her mind wander a little.
My thoughts wandered from the exam questions to my interview the next day.
Her popularity was waning somewhat.
Her initial enthusiasm was clearly beginning to wane.
Refugees are dying for want of proper ‘health care.
Thousands of children are living in want.
Just want you to be happy.
If you truly want to help, just do as I say.
Thanks for the present—it's just what P'vealways wanted.
All T want is the truth.
Six years of total war had left no citizen untoucked.
In My grandfuther fought in two world wars.
The two countries fought a short but bloody war.
The Spartans were perSuaded to make war on Athens.
The terrorists were charged with waging war against the state.
The country went to war in 1914.
The war raged for nearly two years.
Every available resource wen lowards the war effort.
Both candidates have distinguished war records.
He took part in the Vietnam War.
Iran and Irag ~on The US declared war on Japan.
United States warm © PHRASES the horrors of war The country had just ‘emerged from the horrors of civil war: in a state of war, in time/times of war In times of war; troops were billeted in themill.
At the outbreak of war; most children were evacuated to the countryside.
These aircraft are designed to take troops and weapons to any theatre of war in the shortest time possible.
He was admitted to the casualtyward.
The doctor wasdoing her morning ward round.
She spent five days in the maternity ward.
He is chief game warden of the Masai Mara ‘game reserve in Kenya.
She hung the dress up in the wardrobe.
Iwant to buy a whole new summer wardrobe.
Thewhisky was taken to bonded warehouses at Port Dundee.
He's a warehouse foreman for a removals firm.
Iy, s00n Wesoon warmed up in frontof the fire.
His voice suddenly warmed.
She felt her face grow warm at his remarks.
Keep, stay She tries to keep warm by siting right next to the fire.
The bread should stay warm for at least half an hour.
These will keep your feet warm.
Bakefor 15 minutes and serve warm with Greek yogurt.
It wasa mild day, almostwarm.
Add the soured cream and cook, stirring, until just warm.
The room seemed uncomfortably warm.
The night air was sqft and unseasonably warm.
Cameand havea nice warm drink bythe fire.
That jacket looks niceand warm.
He moved towards the seductive warmth of the fire.
This clothing mainiains your body warmth.
She could feel the warmth of the child’s hand in her own.
Autumn colours add warmth toa room.
She sat by the fire and felt thewarmth spread through her body.
They found the children huddled together forwarmth.
She seems to be a person without human warmth.
The chancellor bluntly warned the Cabinet to axe public spending or face higher taxes.
Don't, " he warned softy.
We were specifically warned against buying the house.
Having been duly warned that I would get nowhere with my application, I went right ahead and applied anyway.
My mother constantly warned menot togo intoteaching.
Idid try to warn sou.
She claimed doctors had Jailed towarn her of the risks invalved.
No one had warned us about the unbearable heat.
We were warned cgainst drinking the local water.
Thereport warns of thedangers of smoking.
Theywarned us of the risks involved.
You will get better—but be warned, itmay be a long process.
The explosion came 20 minutes after coded warning to police.
The referee fave him a final warning.
The team’s defeat is a salutary warning before the World Cup.
Her words sounded like a veiled warning.
There isan audible warning whena certain speed is exceeded.
His employers have placed him on final written warning.
There are 39 severe fiood warnings on 22 rivers across the country.
Every clgarette packet carries a health warning.
The police have issued a warning about pickpockets.
The sirens sound a warning when fighter planes are sighted.
The strike sounded a warning toall employers in the industry.
What "happened to him should serve as a warning to all dishonest politicians.
The warning came just minutes before the bomb exploded.
On 2 April 1916 air-raid warnings sounded throughout Edinburgh.
Red marks on the skin may be a warning sign for this disease.
The dog growled in warning as we approached.
He left his wife without warning.
They sent us fair warning of their arrival.
The police issued @ warning to all drug usersin thecits.
He gave us @ word of warning about going out alone at night.
The king refised (o sign the death warrant for his oldfriend.
The commissioner has issued a warrant for her arrest.
The police served a warrant on him.
Police who executed a search warrant found a substantialamount of stolen property on the premises.
In certain circumstances, police ‘may enter premises without a warrant.
The TV appearance was so brief that it hardly warranted comment.
The computer comes with a year's warrantyonall parts.
Corrosion is not covered by the warraniy.
The warranty onmywatch ran out just before it broke.
He took legal action against the compony for breach of tarranty.
Germany lost two warships during this attack.
He is serving on a warshipin the Pacific.
Paula frowned, suddenly wars.
You should be very wary of people offering cheap tickets.
Keep a wary eye on sbisth (often figurative) The Venetians knew to keep a wary eye on Spanish imperial ambitions.
He had a quick wash and shave.
I'm doing adark wash (= washing all the dark clothes together).
That car could do ith a good wash.
In the ~ (= being washed or waiting to be washed) Your shirt's in the wash.
Shegently washed and dressed the wound.
Voluntary redundancies and natural wastage will cut stoff numbers to the required level.
Patients need exercise to prevent ‘muscle wastage.
Buy mare paper than you need to allow for wastage.
Complete, total, utter The whole thing ‘has been a complete waste of time.
All household waste shoutd be disposed of in strong garbage bags.
More people are dumping waste illegally.
Industrialized countriescontinue to export their waste.
In the end her efforts were not entirely wasted.
Just, simply You're just wasting your breath.
He didn't want to waste valuable time in idle gassip.
It seems a shame fo waste this good food.
I'm not going fo waste any more time on the problem.
Don't waste your money ona hotel room.
We put our watchesorward eight hours before landing in Tokyo.
Don't forget ta set your watch ta local time.
Quartz watches dor’t need winding.
My watch is ten years old and it's still gaing.
Sorry I'm late—my watch has stapped.
My watch loses a minute each day.
My watch says three 'clock.
The garrison commander had put an extra watch on the prisaners.
Some of the crew were sleeping, while athers were on watch.
Cats are canstantly on the watch for mice ar ather small mammals.
She watched the mon closely 1o see where he would ga.
She watched helplessly as her husband was dragged awoy.
Justwatching the warld ga by.
They could only watch tn silence as their possessions were taken away.
They stapped 1o watch the procession go by.
He let me watch while he assembled the model.
The women were made to ‘watch while thetr children werestaughtered.
Wewatched far any sign of change in the weather: from They watched from an upstairs window: in She watched in astonishment as he smashed the machine to pieces.
She stood and watched them walk off down the road.
These fish will quickly die in salt water.
Abscesses should be bathed in warm salty water.
The surface water made the road treacherous for drivers.
Avoid drinking the tap water when you first arrive in the cauntry.
The burst pipe was spurting water everywhere.
They turned the water off for a Jfew hours to do some work on the pipes.
Brouwn water gushed out of the rusty old tap.
There was water dripping from a hole in theceiling.
Water /iad got into the boat anduwas sloshing about under our feet.
Building can be difficult where the water table lies close to the surface.
At last the boat reached safer waters.
The flood water had caused tremendous damage.
Manygoods weretransported by water in the last century.
Shecrouched at the water's edgetowash her hands.
The ship had drifted inta uncharted waters.
The submarine had strayed into Russian waters.
She watched the magnificent waterfall cascade down the mountainside.
Darwin's theory of evolution was a watershed dividing the old way of thinkingfrom the new.
The 19/ century marked a watershed between the country's agricultural past and its industrial Jfuture.
The granting of the vote represented a watershed for the rights of wamen.
With the strike, a historical watershed in the development of the trade unian movement was reached.
Several villages have been destroyed by a huge tidal wave.
Surfers flocked to the beach to ride the waves.
We watched the waves breaking on the shore.
There were seogulls bobbing on the waves.
She is on the crest of a wave at the moment following her Olympic success.
Sound waves ‘bounce off objects in their path.
With the fall of the Bastille in 1789, a wave of eu- ‘phoria swept over Europe.
They stood by the side of the road and waved frantically.
He waved a hand vaguely in the air.
She waved cheerfully and he waved back.
The guards waved uson.
He turned to wave to his mother.
We waved at the people on the shore.
They waved to us as we passed.
She waved him toa seat.
Radio One has broadcast on this wavelength for years.
The best way to open it is with pliers.
The most important way to stop accidental drownings is by education.
There is nosubtle way to tell someone that you rio longer want them.
They've explored every possible way of dealing with the problem.
God works in mysterious ways.
He learned ‘aboutthe dangers of drugs the hard way.
There are a number of ways to over- ‘comethis problem.
The women had got into the way of going up on the deck every evening.
Your futher is unlikeIyto change his ways now.
Grandma is so et in her ways.
Can I help you in anyway? HRASES in a big way He then started spending money ina big way.
They're different in every way.
He was attractive in his own way.
He was a handsome mar in a sinister sort of way.
Most people are creative in one way or another: a way of life the beliefs and practices of the Hindu way of life ways and means Newspapers have ways and meansof getting hold of secret information.
He's always gone his own way when itcomes todesign.
We walked along the covered way tothe science building.
She went out of ‘her way to help them.
Let's keep out of her way while she's in such a bad mood.
He wanted t0 g0 to university and would let nothing stand in his way.
Jfigurative) The withdrawal of troops shouldclear the way Jfor a peace settlement.
Tropical Jforest is felled to make way for grassland.
The storm gave way to bright sunshine.
He edged ‘hisway along the wall.
The river wound ts way through thevalley.
We picked our way carefully over the jagged rocks.
She fought her way up to the top of the company.
She bluffed her way through the exam.
She lost her way in the fog.
This project seems fo have lost its way.
He couldn't find a way through the bracken.
We will eventually find a way out of the crisis.
She asked him the way to the station.
We saw a dreadful accident along the way.
There were several rocks in the way.
Could you please get those boxes out of my way?on thelyour~ We stopped for a snack on the wa here.
The supermarket is a bit out of my way.
The wayacross the fields is longer but pleasanter: ~trom, ~out of Can you tell me the woy out of here? ~through The way through the woods is quicker: ~to the easiest way.
We ‘stopped for a drink on the way home.
Look both ways before crossing the road.
They ve gone the wrong way.
He showed us the way.
Walk this way, please.
He looked my way, but didr't seem to recognize me.
Wehad togo a long wey before we fourd a telephone box.
The study of genes hascomec long way inrecentyears.
This bus doesn’t g all the woy so Jou'll have to change.
Your birthdoy isstill some way off weak adj.
When the spasm passed, itleft him weak and sweating.
He complained of feeling curiously weak and faint.
Her legs felt suddenly weok.
The judge decided the evidence was inherently weak and inconsisten.
She's rather weak of maths.
She was weak from shock.
In He's weak in English.
The essay was a bit weak on detail.
He was weak with hunger.
His sudden smile made ‘her gowseak at the knees.
The regime was fatally weokened by the unrest and violence.
The division of Germany had served to weaken the party.
The greatest weakness of the scheme lies i its lack of government support.
In Service conditions soon revealed the inherent weaknesses in the vehicle’s design.
The appraisal system seeks to assess employees' strengths and weaknesses.
I've got a real weakness for chacolate.
He worries a lot about his weight, but can't ‘overcome his weaknessfor fotty foods.
The region possesses a vast nat ural wealth, particularly of timber.
Switzerland has an enormous wealthof beautifulold buildings.
She isa woman of untold wealth.
Incredibly, serlous| (informaD), very He is now fobulously wealthy.
They have gradually weaned him of the drugs.
He was charged with assault with a deadly weapon.
The assault forces used heavy weapons, ncluding ontiank rockets and mortars.
She pleaded gullty to carrying an affensive weapon.
The workers’ ultimate weapan was the strike.
She used humour and wit as weapons against her enemies.
This relaxation tech- ‘nique can serveas an effective weapan ogatnst stress.
In~ Silk shirts always feel soft and light in wear.
This flooring can withstand yearsaf hard wear.
The cathedral steps were palished smooth by centuries of wear.
The floaring comes witha 20-year wear guarantee.
This new oil reduces wear on the engine.
She refused to wear prison clothes.
He s entitled to wear the regimental tie.
Those curtains have worn very well.
She succumbed to weariness and went to bed.
His eyes were half closing in weariness.
He detected a note of weariness in her voice.
Tvegrown rather weary of allyour excuses.
His voice sounded almost wears.
She looks a little weary.
The peopleareweary af war.
Dectding to brave the weather; he grabbed his umbrella and went out.
We'll gojust as soon as this weather lets up.
It was warm and sunny until the weekend, but then the weather broke.
Next day the weather turned cold.
The weather closed inand the climbers had to take shelter.
We're having a barbecue next Saturdas, weather permitting.
Stormy weather prevented any play in today’s tennis.
The plane crashed inio thesea in adverse weather conditians.
The Atlantic weather systems had been kind.
We /iadn't bargained for such a dramatic change in the weather: in all ‘weathers The liféboat crews ga out in all weothers.
Their company had weathered therecession well.
The com- ‘pany has managed to weather the storm.
Someaf the stonehas weathered quite badls.
The carpet was specially woven ta com memorate the 1000th anniversary of the cathedrals foundation.
Hall skilfully weaves the historical research into a gripping narrativ.
Intricately (both figurative) The whisky is inextricably woven into Scotland’s histors, customs and culture.
The mass media Jforms @ web of communications.
More ‘andmore peaple were drawn into his webof deceit.
On the~ Ifound this survey on the Web.
Twas searching this history website for something about Alexander the Great.
We show you fiow to make your own website in ten simplesteps.
There weresomany visitors ta the website that it went down.
This page includes lots of linksto other websites you may find interesting.
The wedding will be conducted by the localvicar.
The royal wedding will take place in June.
We haven't set a wedding date yet.
She hada plain wedding bard on her third finger.
We were choosing what present to buy from the wedding list they'd sent.
After going out with her bosfriend for a year, she started talking about wedding bells.
Imet heratmy brother's wedding.
She wedged a chair firmly under the door handle.
Someone had wedged the door open with a brick.
Mummy, Ineed a wee.
I'm going fora wee.
Routine maintenance of the garden consists of keeping weeds under control.
There were weeds pushing up through the gravel.
They won 1-0for the fourth con secutive week.
It's the first time for ages I've done a full week's work.
Heearnsenough money towork a four-day week.
We spent wo weeks in France last summer.
The week passed verysiowly.
They're paid by the week.
Igoout most weekends, bu rarely during theweek.
We'll be back in a week.
It hasn't rained in weeks.
It's over a week since she rang me.
How much do you earn per week?within afthe~ I'll kave thereport finished within the ‘next couple of weeks.
Friday off and spent a long weekend visiting friends.
It will be a wet weekend for much of England and Waes.
What areyou doing at theweckend?at~s What do you usually do at weekends? over the~ The office Is closed over the weekend.
The people wept openly when his death was announced.
Inconsolably, _uncontrollably Hls grandmother was weeping uncontrollably.
Hewanted toweepat the unjairness of itall.
We had wept over the death of our parents.
She almost wept with happiness.
Several of the soldiers ‘broke down and wept.
The mourners followed the funeral procession, weeping and waiting.
The jury weighed up the evidence carefully.
We weighed the cost of advertising against the likely gains from increased business.
His untidy appearance weighed against ‘him.
This fact weighed heavily in her favour.
His evidence weighed strongly with the judge.
The sheer weight of visitors is destroying this tourist attraction.
The arch bears the weight of the bridge above.
He was buckling under the weight of his responsibilities.
The boy was staggering be- ‘neath the welght of a pileof boxes.
Itisabout 76 kilos in weight.
He's losta lot of weight.
The doctor told me not to put my weight on this ankle for a month.
He nervously shifted his weight from foot t foot.
He threw his weight at the door and it burst open.
People’s body weight can fluctuate during the day.
She did circuit training and lifted welghts to build her fitness.
With dificulty she managed to pull his dead weight onto the bed.
Iift Heavy welghts should be lfted with astraight back.
Environmental considerations were given due weight in making the decision.
They attach oo much weight to academic achlevement.
Her opinion seemed to carry little weight in the company.
The new evidence added considerable weight to the prosecution’s case.
Sir Leon lent his weight to the Tory campaign yesterday.
The rebels were defeated by sheer weight of numbers.
The exam consists of six equally weighted questions.
This new legislation is unfairly weighted ‘against the small farmerin favour of The course is heavily weighted infavour of engineering.
It all sounds a bit weird tome.
Some of their clothes were really weird and wonderful.
The audience gave the band a rousing welcome.
Sensing that he had outstayed his welcome, he quickly said his goodbyes and left.
She held out her arms in welcome.
The proposal received a cautious welcome from the Oppos: ition.
They received a cold weicome to their new home.
The whole fumily turned out to welcome him back.
The school is preparing to welcome the ‘new intakeof students.
He welcomed us into the club.
We are delighted to welcome you to our firm.
They welcomed the new volunteers with ‘open arms (= with enthusiasm).
Many companies have warmly welcomed these changes in legislation.
We positively welcome applications from all sections of the communits.
Forelgn bankers and economists cautiously wel- ‘comed the minister’s nitiative.
The proposals have been widely welcomed.
They made us very welcome in their home.
The 1% rate cut s highly welcome.
You would be a most welcome guest.
Ican'toffer Jfive-star accommodation, that's all.
He made it plain that Holman's interest in his busi- ‘ness affairs was not at all welcome.
Visitors are ‘always welcome.
New members are welcometo theclub.
Improve, promote The government's policies will promote the welfare of all citizens.
The new govern- ‘ment promised to clamp down on welfare scroungers.
Shewas filled with a sense of well-being.
Wet your hair thoroughly before applying the shampoo.
Wet the towelslightly with warm water.
We got soaking wetjust going from the car to the house.
The weather ‘may turn wet later on in the week.
Mind you don't get your feet wet.
His clothes were dripping wet.
The grass was et with det.
We were wet throughand cold.
The wheels were still going round.
Kid, slide, slip He braked suddenly, causing thefront wheels toskid.
She braked (oo hard andtheuwheels locked.
Ste ell under the wheels of a bus.
Idrove the first 200 ‘miles and then Steve took the wheel.
The bus set off again with a fresh driver at the wheel.
Anthony ‘manoeuvred his wheelchair out from behind his desk.
The present whereabouts of the manuscript isunknown.
She did not say where shewas going, andnobody knows her whereabouts.
Icaught the whiff of whisky on his breath.
Journalists caught a whiff of scandal and pursued the actress relentlessly.
Things continued quietfor some while.
After a while, I began to get bored with my fob.
They chatted for & while.
There's no need to do anything for the while.
Il be back ina while.
The bird hopped across the lawn, keeping a sharp lookout all the while.
Everybody makes a mistake once in a while (= occasionally).
He kept me waiting for quitea while.
The problems started a while back.
Funding is subject to political whim.
For years ‘she had suffered her husband's whims.
Slaves could be bought and sold at the whim of their masters.
He bought the jacket on.
The child’s parents pandered to his every whim.
Theanimal gave a pathetic it tlewhimper.
The dog whimpered softls.
The boy was whimpering with pain.
He stirred in her arms, whimpering like achild.
She spoke with a whine.
The engines whined softly in the background.
He cracked the whip and the horse leapt forward.
He was taken back to the joil and soundly whipped.
Lightly whip the egg whites and add them to the mixture.
The next few days were a mad whirl of parties.
Hismind wasina whirlas he searched frantically for asolution.
Tl have my whisky stralght, please.
He added a dash of whisky to his caffee.
She poured herself a large totof whisky.
He had a whisky on the rocks.
He ordered beer with a whisky chaser (= a small glass of whisky drunk after a beer).
Their voices were very quiet, hardly abovea whisper.
They spoke in whispers.
Come on’ he whispered urgently.
Yes, " Twhispered back.
He could only whisperinreply.
She heard him whisper her name.
Hush,' he whispered against her hair through No,” he whispered through gritted teeth.
The referee’s whis: tlewent jusl befare he shot the goal.
He gave a short blast on hiswhistle.
He pursed his lips in a silent whistle.
The train entered the tunnel with a shrill whistle.
She gave a low whistleof admiration.
Norma looked at the parcel and whistled softly through her teeth.
Men whistled at her in the street.
James whistled in amazement.
William whistled to me from a distance.
Use the whites of two eges.
Cover, embrace, encompass, Involve, span The project invalved the whale of the university.
Technalogy permeates the whole of our lives.
She was strug gling 1o organize her ideas into a coherent whle.
The author examines each aspect of Roman soclety, then attempts to summarize the complex whole.
At this age, bobies do ot yet combine sounds into @ meaningful whole.
He tried 1o fit the pieces of evidence together to make a coherent whole.
Unemployment is higter in the north than in the country as a whole.
Open your mouth really wide.
He spread his hands wide in appeal.
Her shotfell just wideof the target.
Their predictions turned out to be very wide of the mark.
The gap betuween rich and poor has widened considerably.
The road widens out and becomes a dual carriageway.
Into Al this point, the river widens into an estuary.
Iliteracy is widespread among the poor.
He died in March leaving a widow and three children.
The fubric s only available in narrowwidth.
Measure the width of each side.
The snow had narrowed the width of the road to a single track.
The road narrows toa width of ust four metres.
The boots are available in a choice of width fittings.
The pattern goes across the full width of the material.
The car is 1.
With a dependent wife and children, he can’t afford to lose.
His long-suffering wife had to put up with his numerous affairs.
Emeet I frst met my wife at university.
The wig scemed 1o perch on his head.
In afthe~ Who's thatman in the wig? wild adj.
The flowers grow wild in the ‘mountains.
The dogs live wild on thestreets.
This s trulywild and unspoilt countryside.
He looked wild and dangerous.
Tun When the princess appeared, the croud went wild.
They annay the neighbours because they let their children run wild.
It makes me wild (= very angry) tosee such waste.
Her hair was rather wild.
Thecrowd was wild with excitement.
They transformed the wilderness into a garden.
They sef out to explorethe earth's last great wilderness, Antarctica.
His wilderness years (= when he was out of politics and the public ‘eye)in the 1990 were spent in North America.
We were hopelessly lost i the wilderness.
They called on the government to help protect native wildlife.
The large variety of native plants attracts wildlifeto the area.
The increasing use of pesticides threatens the wildlife of the arva.
Do not allow your dog to disturb wildlife.
In The forestis home to a wealth of wildlife.
His unassuming matter concealed an iron will.
She's got a very strong will.
She's lost the will to try and change things.
Constant rejection has sapped her will.
She usually manages to impose her will on the rest of the group.
They were taught to obey their father's will without quesion.
My ather did't want me to leave home, and Ididn't like to go against his will.
She believes employers should have theright to hire and fireat will.
Itrequiresan actof will omake ‘myself go running in the morning.
The meeting turned out lo be a clash of wills.
With a great effort of will he resisted her pleas.
She left of her own free will.
God, the will to live Shegradually regained the will to live.
Two people must witness your signature or your will will not be valid.
His solicitor drew up the will.
She left no will and wasunmorried.
Remarriage would revoke all previous wilis.
She was moved when her neighbour remer- ‘bered her in his will.
The family decided to contest the will in court.
They succeeded in getting the will overturned.
Some things cannot be given away by will.
She left me some money in her will.
Under her father's will, she gets £5 000 year: ® PHRASES sb's last will and testament willing adj.
They appear willing totalktous.
I'm more than willing to get involved.
He's quite willing to do the same for you.
He seemed willing enough to listen.
She isaluays wilting to help.
The new government has shown a willingness to listen and learn.
Workers' leaders have expressed their willingness to cooperate.
Harriage counselling depends on both parties’ willingness to fry tosolve problems.
In her willingness 1o help them, she quite forgot that shewasn'tas strong as she had been.
It took all his will power to stay in and study.
He tried to summon the will power to get out of bed.
She managed {o finish the race by sheer will power.
The plants will wilt in direct sunlight.
By halftime, the team was wilting under the pressure.
The passengers were visibly wilting with the heat and movement of the bus.
An extra-time penaliy gave Barcelona lastgasp win over Chelsea.
People still talk about the famous win agatnst Brazil.
We've had three successive wins in the Notional League.
Torino notched up a 2-1 win at Lazio.
Woods romped (0 a 12shot wininthe Open.
His only big win come in the French Open ten years ago.
They've gone four games without a win.
She was in a no-win situation, taking the blame for things she did not have the power tochange.
The French team won hands down.
She narrowly won the first race.
Heduly won, but was then sidelined by a leg injury.
We didn't deserve to win—ue played very badly.
The actress is tipped to win an Oscar for her performance.
The far right party feiled to win ¢ single seat.
They stand a good chance of winning against their leaguerivals.
Tnever win at tennis.
She won the race by 40 metres.
The match was eventually won on penalties.
Therearea Lot of teams capable of winning the fitle.
He succeeded in winning their confidence.
He winced inwardly ot her harsh tone.
She switched on the light, wincing at the sudden brightness.
He winced in pain.
Rain and high windsareforecast.
There was a stiff wind blowing.
The icy wind cut right through us.
Adverse winds swept the boat off course.
The wind came from the west.
The wind roared through the tunnel.
The wind whipped up the surface of the lake.
Lef's wait untl the wind drops before setting sail.
The wind suddenly changed and began blowing from the north.
We were rowing against the wind.
We were Ing into the wind.
Let's shelter out of the wind.
He wound the bandage tightly round his ankle.
She wound the wool into a ball.
She had an unexpected windfall of a thousand pounds when a cousin died.
French, lattice, leaded, picture, rose, sash, skylight, small-paned, stained-glass You get 1o the garden through French windowsat theback of the house.
The cathedrat has a beautiful rose window.
Ll the windows in the prison are barred.
No light showed in any of the blank windows of the house.
Ifound her looking in the window of a departmentstore.
We tapped on the window to get their attention.
Irolled down the window to ask for directions.
All the windows biew out with the force of the blast.
The windowsalisteam up when you have a shower.
The windows rattle when a train goes past.
He works as a window cleaner.
He was standing at the window waiting Jfor us.
We caught sight of him in the window as we passed.
There was a vase of Slowers in the window.
She gazed out of the window at the folling snow.
Theythrew a brick through the windouw.
Click on the window to makeit active.
If you closea couple of windows, the screen will be less cluttered.
She scraped the windscreen free of ice.
She switched the wipers on to clear the windscreen.
Bright evening sunlight glared through the windscreen.
He served a light white wine with the lunch.
Theyounger wines will be mature after about threzyears.
The res taurant’s house wines are an Australion Chardonnay and a French red.
I'll ‘have some wine, please.
The waiter went round topping up people’s wine.
The winery has been making wine for a couple of centuries.
They always ply their clients with wine before getting down to business.
The wine flowed freely at the party.
The wine had gone to his ‘head and he was starting to talk rubbish.
Open the wine an hour before the meal (o let it breathe.
The restaurant has an extensive winelist.
The supermarket holds occasional wine-tasting sessions.
The beetle's fore wings are small and are not used in flight.
It flapped its wings and flew off.
Pete felt he had hod his wings clipped when his driving licence was confiscated.
It had white markings on its wings.
The soung birds were under the mother bird's wing.
Simon’s uncle had taken him under his wing.
Inalthe~ Our roomswere inthe westwing.
The nearside wing was damagedin the accident.
They're on the l¢ft wing of the Labour Party.
Hedirected a conspiratorial wink at his son.
He winked broadly at Lucinda.
She winked saucily ot Jack.
Isauw him wink at her PREP, at She winked at me, and I winked back.
Joint They were Joint winners of the cup.
Wucky She was the lucky winner of thot week’s biggest lottery prize.
She emerged as the clear winner.
There were no big winners in this week’s lotters.
Barcelona look likely winners of the Sponish League.
Se is a regulor winner in local road races.
The winner will be chosen from the five architects who get through the first round.
He's very good at picking winners (= at guessing who is gaing to win).
He backed the winner and won £70.
The winner will receivea prizeof £500.
France were impressive 3-0 win ‘nersover Portugal.
The plasttesurfacecan be easily wiped.
Twiped up the spilt wine.
He paused to wipe the sweatfrom hisforehead.
She gently wiped the tears from her eyes.
He wiped the marks off the wll.
The regiment was virtually wiped out in the first battle.
The disease hos been effectively wiped out.
Carswerecoming past with their wipers going.
The bomb was attached 0 a tripwire lnid across the road.
They cut the perimeter wire and escoped.
The wire was stretched between 10 poles.
Cool the cakeson awirerack.
Behind the wire, the prisoners were exercising.
We got in under the wire.
Dor't touch that wire.
The wire was attached toa pinintheplug.
Hedisconnected the wire from the clock.
The electrician ran a wire from the Kitchen to the bedroom.
There were wirestrailing everywhere.
You should check that the socket is carrectly wired.
She was wired up to a ‘heart monitor.
Many homes were wired for lighting only.
The Christmas tree lights are all wired to one plug.
The existing wiring will have to be replaced.
They took out the old wiring.
We'd better get an electrician to check the wiring before we start decorating.
The wiring was concealed behind Jalse panel.
Conventional wisdom has it that riots only ever happen in cities.
He is foo lacking in worldly wisdom to be a politician.
Many commentators doubted the palitical wisdom of introducing a new tax.
Those who seek wisdom at theshrinewillfind it.
The latest unemployment figures prove the wisdom of the government’s policy.
Consultanis are taa often seen as the source of all wisdam.
In their infinite wisdom, the council closed the swimming pool for the school holidays.
He entertained the audience for two hours with his wit and wisdom.
It's easy enough ta see what we ‘should have done, with the wisdom of kindsight.
The former world champian imparted a few words of wisdor to the young runners.
It was nat cansidered wise to mave her to anather ‘hospital.
It is always wise to writedown important poinss.
He was denied his dying wish to be reconciled with his son.
She has expressed a wish tavisit the Houses of Parliament.
She fulfiled her deepest wish when she flew salo for the Sirst time.
She's always wanted ta be an actress, and I'm sure she'l get her wish.
It is vital for schools to respect the wishes of parents.
She flew into a rage if the staff didn't obey her wishes.
The committee rode roughshod aver the wishes of union members.
The change ta the constitution reflects the wishes of the peaple who voted in the referendum.
Draw up a wish list, defining the requirements for your ideal home.
Her father will not speak ta her; because she married against his wishes.
In accordance with his wishes, his ashes were scattered.
WiSH have, make When you sce a black cat, you have to make a wish.
Loand behold, on Christmas 'Day their wishes came true.
Givemy best wishes ta Alisan.
With best wishes for @ happy birthday.
If you wish really hard, maybe yau'll get what you want.
Where is he naw? I only wish T knew.
If's no use wishing for the impossible.
She had touse all her nativewit to convince the police.
Thape he's gat the wit to take the key with him.
She couldr’t seem ta gather her wits and tell us what had happened.
Living alone in the cauntry had dulled his wits.
The strike developed info @ battle of wits between management and_workers.
She hastily withdrew her hand from his.
Furces will be progressively withdrawn.
He was forced to withdraw from the competition due to injury.
Tiwo thousand troops were withdrawn from the battlezone.
In tavour of He eventually withdrew in fovour of Blair; thought to be the more popular candidate.
Sheuwithdrew into her awn world.
She formally withdrew her resignation.
Last night he unconditionally withdrew hiscomments.
They threatened to withdraw their support from the government.
The UN were faced with an ignominious withdrawal or long-term military presence.
The party is calling for the phased withdrawal of troops from the islond.
The police were Jorced to makea tactical withdrawol.
She made a withdrawal of £250 from her bankaccount.
She was stilt suffering withdrawal from nicotine.
Their support had simply withered away.
The grass withered under a scorching sun.
The business withered and eventually died.
Con- ‘sent will not be unreasonably withheld.
He was accused of deliberately withholding information from the police.
The flooring needs (o be tough enough to withstand wear.
An eyewitness account described the plane as a ‘firebalr.
As the Last person to see her alive, he was a material witness in the case.
The police are appealing for witnesses.
Two witnesses came Sorwardwith evidence.
Thedefence called their firstwitShe appeared as a character witness.
Ajudicial enquiry was ordered, but witnesses were threatened and none would testify.
He was charged with conspiracy to suborn witnesses.
The next witness took the stand.
When I stood up my legs went allwobbly.
The chair looked a bit wobbis.
The thief tricked his way into an elderly woman's home.
Older women often have difficulty conceiving.
The little girl she remembered was now a grown woman.
Jean Menckes plays the president's wife and Fiona Handley plays the other woman (= theone the President is having an affair with).
Women are limited to the more poorly paid Jjobs.
Women are reduced to merely playing a passiverole.
T'here were - portant changes in the position of women in soclety.
He saw her as a woman of the world who could offer him advice.
The freedom 1o wear trousers becamea symbolof women’s liberation.
The baby’s head was starting to emerge from the womb.
There aren't any words toexpress properly all the wonder that Ifeel.
The children’s faces werefull of wonder as they gazed up at the Christmas tree.
Neville shook his head in wonder at it all ‘with~ e held her breath with wonder and delight.
Iceland is full hot springs, beautifully coloured rocks, and other natral wonders.
She was determined to prove she was no seven-day wonder whose promise would remain unfulfiled.
The change of diet has done wonders for my skin.
Thanks (0 the wonders of modern science, many common diseases will soon be things of the past.
The palace has been described as the eighth wonder of the world.
Robert could be the murderer.
Where's Natasha? she wondered aloud.
Just ‘Why doyou ask? ‘I just wondered.
His obvious hunger made her wonder how long ‘hehad been up and about.
The weather was absolutely wonderful.
Pine is a soft wood.
The pub had dark wood panelling.
The wood was (00 green to burn.
She pruned the dead wood from the tree.
Kindling There were neat piles of kindling wood against the wall.
The cabinet is made of cherry wood.
We carve the moulds in wood.
She stained the wood green.
We gathered woodfor thefire.
Over theyears, much of the wood in the house had rotted.
The chapel has some interesting works in wood and marble.
In the~ a walk in the woods through the ~ He wandered through the beech wood.
He hit the woodwork (= th ‘wooden frame of the goal) fwice before scoring.
Therewerecracks in the woodwork.
She's knitting a Jumper in pure wool.
He uses big words to impress people.
When a new fruit is first imported, itsname isusuallyalso imported asa loan word.
Those were her very words.
He wrote down @few keywords to help him remember what tosay.
You can't aluways find the right word when you're translating.
The play is full of four-letter words.
Work is a dirty word to Frank.
His name has become a household word since he first appeared in the serfes.
The police use code words for their major operations.
She combines visual images and the spoken word togreateffect in her presentations.
Spanish has no word for ‘understotement.
He uses lots of long words.
Every word he utters is treated as sacred text.
Necessary’ (s one of the most commonly misspelt words in English.
She looked the word up in the dictionary.
The word ‘e-commerce’ was coined to refer to business done over the Internet.
Words can'texpress how happy Iam.
Boid words denote chapter headings.
The some word can carry numerous meanings.
The word has two meanings.
The ward derives from a Norse word meaning ‘eve of the wind'.
Words fail me (= I cannot express how feel).
The students had to retell the story in thelr oun words.
She wos a true friend inall senses of the word.
In other words They're letting me go—in other words, I've been sacked.
They told me in so many words (= directly) that I was no longer needed.
Peaple who overeat are not adicts in the true sense of the ‘word.
Could you say that ogoin in words of one syllable? word forword (= exactly) He repeated word for word what the boy had said to him.
The manager had a quiet word with Alison, and she gave him no ‘more problems.
Kind He hasn't a good word to say for anybody.
No polite words of gratitude came.
Despite all their fine words, the council have never done anything to improve road safety.
The government's pramises on nurses' pay turned out to be weasel words (= deliberately unclear).
Despite his brave words, T don’t believe he can save the factory from closure.
He ruined her self-confidence witha few well-chosen words.
They exchanged whispered words of love.
The look in her eyes filled In the unspoken words in her sentence.
Her last words were for her children.
Seconds after uttering the fateful words ‘this is eosy, he crashed.
I've fiad a few words with John, and he's quite happy for you tostay.
She had some harsh words to say about her colleagues.
Before we begin, I'd like tosay a few words about who Iam.
Nobody's uttered a word to me about it.
Just say the word ond Ill go.
Words were exchanged (~ there was an argument).
Hecouldn't find the words to thank her enough.
He chose his words carefully when commenting on her work.
She felt angry at how the Journalist had twisted her words.
The journalists hung on hisevery wordas he spokeof hisordeal.
When he told fer she would fail, she swore she would make him eat his words.
He doesr't mince his words when he talks about his ex-boss.
Her words conjured up a strange picture in her mind.
He was nervous, and his words came out in a rush.
His words fell into the silence like stones.
He wanted to tell her how he feltabout her; but the words stuck in his throat.
Maggie was no fool: she must realize I meant it.
Her teacher's words echoed in her ears.
His words faded tosilence as he saw she didn't belteve him.
Shecould feel her temper boiling as his words sank in.
In a~ "Would you like to help us? *In a word (- briefly), no.
She left withouta word.
We never heard anyone say on unkind word about her.
And now a word from our sponsors .
Word/never was a truer word spoken You said we were about to make a big mistake, and never was a truer word spoken! (= you were right), not a (single) word Remember—not a word to (= don't tell) Peter about any of this.
Wedidn't say a single word to each other all day.
He felt after the interview that the police officers had been trying to put words into his mouth in (= to make him say what they wanted him to say).
The restaurant does ot adzertise, but relies on word of mouth for custom.
She gave him her solemn word that she would give up drugs.
He promised io heip and was as good as his word.
True to her word, she returned next day.
Once he has made a promise, he never goes back on his word.
We only have her word for it that the cheque is in the post.
You needn’t worry about him not paying you back—he's a man af his word.
He said I could stay at his house any time, so I ook him at his word.
Tl take his word for it that ifs finished.
If its your word against the police officer’s, the jury are going to believe him.
Is their bond, sb's word of honour He gave me his word of honour that ‘hewouldn’t tellanyone.
He sent word 10 his family that his captors were treating him well.
We didn’t get word of her arrest until thenextday.
If word getsout about the affatr; he will have to resign.
The word is they've splitup.
Word has it that she’s leaving.
Health workers spread the word about the benefits of immunization.
We need to word our question quite cargfully.
He issued a very strongly worded statement denying any involvement in the plot.
The wording was deliberatelyambiguous.
We ‘need to think carefully about the wording of the request.
It doesn't requireskill—it's matter of sheer hard work.
The show is the product of two years' intensive work.
They employ a couple of young men to do the heaty work.
She's only allowed to do little light work because of her bad arm.
Engine maintenance is dirty work.
The drugs gang used children to do their dirty work for them.
Many unemployed people welcome the chance to do purposeful work, even if unpaid.
The research institute ‘needs funds in order to carry on its valuable work.
They thin that looking after children is women’s work.
The scandal was revealed after months of undercover work by Journalists.
Her job as a marke researcher involves a lot of legwork (= walking around to collect information).
His written work s the best in the class.
The reportis the joint work of an economist and a sociologist.
He preferred to make his money from ‘honest work rather than from gambling.
Nice work, James! I'm im- ‘pressed.
In accepting the award, she mentioned the sterling work of her ossistants.
Hedid pioneering work on microbes.
It was an interesting piece of work.
All the construction work was carried out in 2001.
I've got lots of work to do today.
She's put in a lot of work on the design.
Id better try and get some work done.
We're going to have some building work done on the ‘house.
Work produced on a word processor tends to look more professional.
We get far too much wor ot this time of year.
I've taken on more work than T've got time 1o do.
Big football matches make a lot of work for the police.
They began work on the project fowards the end of the year: Stop talking and get down to work.
She went cheerfully about her work.
They tost the work to a competitor.
The new president spent the first year undoing the work of his predecessor.
The assistant manager supervises work on the factory floor.
She set them to work painting the fence.
The work comes in bursts according to the time of year.
That work can woit until to- ‘morrow.
Work came t0 ‘complete standstill when rumours of redundoncies started tocirculate.
Her boss told her she had toincrease her work rate.
Work surfaces should be let clear ard clean.
He's been hard at work all morning.
Il be ready to drive.
It will take a month 10 clear the backlog of work.
The hotel manager thanked the taff for their efforts so far and told them 1o keep up the good work.
Ife’s work The artcollection was his1ife’s work.
She never does a stroke of work.
Pressure of work Jorced him to cancel his holiday.
The ‘showroom has been designed so that people can see work in progress.
He hasn't been in regulor work since he left school.
In the college vacations hedoes casual work in the local hospital.
People went about their daily work despite the war: > Ambulance crews alternate betueen emergency and routine work.
It's piece work, so how much you earn depends on how fost you con work.
He's ot a bit of freelance work at the moment.
He got made redundant, so now he's looking for work again.
Full-time work is hard to find.
Some mothers of young children choose ot to go out to work.
She stops work at the end of this month.
She has just reurned to work after the birth of her child.
Sales reps meet up ‘monthly to coordinate their work.
Work's going well at the moment.
Employees must not make personal calls in work hours.
He's doing a montk's unpaid work experience with an engineering firm.
High income tax can undermine work Incentives.
Where's Diane? ‘She's at work.
We had a party at work.
With so miuch unemployment, T'mluckyto beinwork.
It important to be happy in your work.
She's been off work with a bad back since July.
He's been out of work since the factory closed.
Imet him through work.
What line of work are you in? “Computing.
Her book is still considered the definitive work on beetles.
The artuwork in the book is siiperb.
Beethoven composed his greatest works towards the end of his life.
Her work can be seen in most of the major European galleries.
The town hall is ex.
She's studying the theme of death in the works of Beckett.
The gallery s staginga special exhibition of Monet's early works.
The building is hated by some and considered a work of art by others.
They discovered that his CV was a complete work of fiction.
Her latest novelis a work of genius.
We are planning to carry out major works on the site.
The works will continue until theendof July.
The works at Bury turned out thousands of television sets a week.
He had been working hard all morning.
Emergency teams were working round the clock to make the homes secure.
Weworked steadily away all morning.
Employees are motivated to work harder for a whole host of differentreasons.
He's working as a teacher at the moment.
Tve spent three hours working at this problem.
She works for anoilcompans: on We are working on plans fora ‘mew swimming pool.
Things worked out wellfor Janet in the end.
One night in these expensive hotels costs around the averageworker's monthly wage.
Theunion accused the firm of exploiting its workers.
The shop s staffed by one paid worker and three volunteers.
Job 400 workers have lost their jobs.
Workers demanded fulr wages and better working conditions.
The workers voted for Industrial action.
The shipyard has a totol workforce of 9000.
The new management decided to retrain the entire workforce.
The company employs workforce of nearly 5000.
The management alwoys consults with the workforce before introducing mojor changes.
The increase in the number of people entering the workforce has increased unemployment figures.
The workforce numbers 500.
There is a change in the distribution of skills among the workforce.
In aithe ~ One person in the workforce is always responsible or the same job.
Their researchaims to shed light on the workings of the human mind.
An assistant one day @ week would ease my workload.
We want ( try and distribute the workload more evenly.
Doctors are ‘having to cope with on ever-expanding workload.
He accused the goroge of shoddy workmanshipon the bodywork.
When I do a good workout, Ifeel fine.
The team had a hard workout this morning.
The workshop em- ‘ploys 25 full-time workers.
The company holds regular skills development workshops.
The Careers Advisory Service will be running a seriesof workshops for students.
The Institute will host a speciol wo-day workshop on new building materials.
The workshop covered a wide range of issues.
During the workshop, they each practised their part in the performance.
In the one-day workshop, she taught us the importance of breathing exercises.
They believe that God created the world.
One of these days, humar:- kind will destroy the world.
Fast food outlets seem to be taking over the world.
Asa young man, he wanted to see the world before he settled down.
Sweden leads the world in safety legislation.
World oil prices continue torise.
Internet companies are battling for worid domination.
The bombing alienoted worid opinion.
He was easily beaten by the reigning world champion.
The team is worid class.
The Portuguese team looked like world beaters in last night's game.
She shaitered the world record or the 200 metres.
Ings He has never before featured in the top ten worid rankings.
The band are obout to embark on a six- ‘month world tour.
Astronomers across the world witl be watching the night sky.
The ceremony was waiched live by millions around the worid.
In the~ He felt he was the luckiest man in the whole world.
People throughout the world will be watching the big match on television.
It won't be the end.
Communist parties were formed on a world scale after the Russian Revolution.
The country became an important player on the world stage.
It's an interesting part of the world.
Arab, English-speaking, Western, etc.
Heads of state from all over the Arab world gathered for the conjerence.
First, industrlalized, rich First World consumers will hate to eat less meat.
Naw, OId Machismo is a New World phenomenon with roots in Old World cultures.
In the Western world, there is a differentattitude tomarriage.
Throughout his time in prison he had no contact with theoutside world.
In the real world things don't always happen like they do in books.
She enjoys creating imaginary worlds for children.
She lives inher own inner world.
Mediums claim to receive messages from the spirit world.
Like living in the country because I'm interested in the natural world.
We come from different worlds.
Iitie) She lives inher own little wrld.
She told him he was her only friend in the whole wide world.
The wider world learned of his illness months after he told his JSamily.
It's a very small world in this profession.
Young people always think they are going to change the world.
Children often have their own private world.
Into, enter, escape into e come into the world with nothing.
He entered the world of politics in 1997.
Showbusiness gave him the chance to escape into another world.
She had brought six children into theworld.
He closed his eyes and tried to shut out the world.
For the first time since thedeath of her parents, shefelt able to face the world.
He was so happy to leave school, he elt ready to take on the worid.
She was determined to show the world that she was no loser.
The news of the assassination shook the world.
His worid fell apart when his wife died.
She thinks the world revolves around her and her schedule.
He seems to think that the world owes him a living.
Teachers influence the world view of their young students.
He's well known in the fushion world.
At this age, babies are starting to take an interest in the world around them.
In the world of high finance, there i lttle room for sentiment.
The eyes of the world are on the president.
In an ideal world, Id liketo work just three days a week.
Shewas inaworldof her own.
He's 100 young to understand the ways of the world.
Worms burrow down through the soil.
The worm was wriggling on the hook.
Citizens in inner-ity areas are desperately worried andrightlyso.
She was worried sick about her son.
Paying the mortgage is @ big worry for many people.
My greatest worry is that he'll do something stupid.
The money side of things has been a constart worr.
She gave her parents unnecessary worry when she forgot to phone them.
My immediate worry is money.
It wasa relief toshare my secret worries with him.
That year he had major health worries.
Alllout of your mind/sick with I didn't know where he was and I was frantic with worry.
The earth tremors prompted worries of a second major earthquake.
Increase The act that she heard nothing from him only increased her worry.
Try and forget your worries for a little while.
Most of Nigel's worries proved groundless.
The pound has fallen 1o new low amid worries that the British economy is heading for trouble.
He was sick with worry abouteverything.
They will not have worries over money.
His mother's health san enormous worry to him.
There is no immediate cause Jor worry.
Worries on that accountiscore The staff all work very hard—we've got no worrles on that acoount.
When he lost his Job, the size of his flat was theleast of his worries.
Money is aconstant source of worrs.
She worriesa lot about crime.
What really worries me is what we do if there’s nobody there.
You do worry unnecessarily, you know.
Dor'tworry 100 much about .
Don't let it worry youunduly.
Dor't worry about me, Tt be fine.
Don'tworry thedriver with unnecessary reques_s.
Don't bother Harry—he has enough to worry about as it i.
Stop worrying, Dad, we'l be fine.
The problem is getting worse all the time.
The pain grew worse.
Ignoring the problemwill make it worse.
Things could be a sight worse than they are.
The area seemed almost worse than the city he had left.
The problem became progressively worse.
We've run out of petrol.
Worse still, we can’t get ony ‘more until tomorrou.
The problem has worsened considerably in recent months.
The economic recession has continued toworsen.
Our worship today is led by the Reverend John Parker.
Under the new regime, all religions enjoy freedom of worship.
Fifteen per cent of the population attend a place of worship.
My ‘mother always expects the worst.
Although all the uotes have not yet been counted, the Democrats are preparing for the worst.
Scotland seemed to have escoped the worst of the recession.
Let them do their wrst (= be as difficultas they can)—we'llfight them every inchof the was.
At worst, the drug can be fatal.
At its worst, bullying is a kind of torture.
Her sister helped her through the worst of her iliness.
Pressure can bring out the worst in people.
Fe'd been in a fight and had obviously got the worst of It.
Don't worry—the worst that can ‘happen is that you'llget fine.
Study has an intrinsic worth, as well as helping you achieve your goals.
Some experts doubt the economic worth of the project.
The insurance company agreed to pay the car’s current market worth.
The emergency lighting ‘has proved its worth this year.
Asking for advice from people affirms their personal worth.
Ionly found out its real worth when Itried to buy another one.
They don't appreciate her true worth.
She knows her own worth.
Henever contributed anything of worth tothe conversation.
This necklace isn’t worth anything in ‘money terms, but its worth lome is incalculable.
They don't appreciate her at her real worth.
They are looking for a new sales manager of proven worth.
She has no sense of her own worth.
Most of thecandidates were not considered worth interviewing.
This book is well worth reading.
It's so unimportant it's hardly worth mentioning.
It's always worth seeing if you can get a cheap, last-minute deal.
This order is potentially worth millions of pounds to the company.
These coniradictions made his evidence worthless.
Theopinion polls weredismissed asworthiess.
The diseased planis are quite worthless to the farmer.
Their grattude made it all worthwhile.
The matter is scarcely worthy of the managing director's time.
We thought it was a worthy enough objective.
If'sa matter worthy of our attention.
Despite the large amount of blood, it was only a flesh wound.
Theexit woundmade by the bullet was much larger than the entry wound.
It was a clean wound, and it healed quickly.
He had deep wounds in his chest.
She was fatally wounded ina carcrash.
In One reporter was wounded in the leg.
She was deeplywounded by hisremarks.
In althe ~ The two countries fell out in a bitter wrangle over imports.
The wrangle between the school and the local council has gone on for tuwo years.
Each apple was individually wrapped in paper.
He wrapped his arms tightly around her waist.
She wrapped the child carefully in blanket.
Make sure you wrap up warmly if you're going out.
We went outside, well wrapped up against the cold.
Christine was wrapped up in oneof the blankets.
Sweet wrappers littered thefloor: © PREP, in althe ~ The book arrived in a plain brown wrapper.
They saw thefloods asa signof divinewrath.
This is the second hotel to feet the wrath of the bombers.
He incurred Helen's wrath by orriving late.
She feared her father's wrath.
If the primeminister fuils, he willfoce thewrath of the voters.
They left gifts for thegods toapwreckage pease their wrath.
Hefled the country to escape the king's wrath.
He vented his wrath on his colleagues.
He didn't come to the funeral buthesenta wreath.
Sheworea wreathof roses round her head.
Divers were sent down (o try and locate the wreck.
They'regoing to try and raise the wreck from the sea bed.
They are worried about the oil still in the wreck.
Heavy seas prevented saluage teams from landing on the wreck.
Explosions ripped through the blazing wreck.
Twopassengers arestill trapped in the wreck.
The interview reduced him to nervous wreck.
Ialioays turn intoa ‘gibbering wreck at intervieuws.
They still hoped to salvage something from thewreck of their marriage.
The crash left wreckage spread over wide area.
The runway is still strewn with wreckage.
Wreckage has been sighted ffteen miles northof theisland.
He surveyed the wreckage of his expensive equipment.
Police are searching the wreckageor clues 1 the cause of the accident.
The wreckage has now been cleared from the motoruway.
Several people arestill trapped in the wreckage.
He had to be cut from the wreckage by Sfiremen.
The remains of an explosivedevice were found among the wreckoge.
Arother body has been recovered from the wreckage.
Bodies layamong the tangled wreckage.
Her body was discovered in the wreckage.
The children wriggled uncomfortably in their seats.
She wriggled her way under the heavy eiderdown.
Fine wrinkles started toappear round her eyes.
Her skin was still without a urinkle.
His face was all wrinkledandold.
He grabbed her wrist but she twisted it free.
Strong fingers encircled her tiny wrists.
The burglars bound the family's wrists behind their backs.
He siashed his wrists in a suicide attempt.
The secret of making the ball spin is in the wristaction.
He wears weights on his wrists when he goes running.
She sent the shuttlecock fiying over the et with a practised flick of the wrist.
High Court, Supreme Court, etc.
Creditors could obtain awritfor thearrest of their debiors.
The solicttor came to serveawriton him.
He has been served with a High Court writ.
The businessmen have issued a writ against the authority for damages.
She was busily uriting in an exercise book.
He wrotea list on the back of an old envelope.
He has uritten extensively on thesubject.
Pprompt sb to She was inspired (o write the poem by a visit to the cathedral.
St writes for “The Times'.
She wrote of her lifein Africa.
He writes on political issues.
The present writer (= the person writ: ing) has no experience in microbiology.
Guardian ~of a writer of children's books ~on He is a prominent writer on civil liberties.
We have decided not to employ a writer in residence after June.
Unlike many writers of the pertod, she is not preoccupled with morality.
He's just released a new album after 1o yearsof writer’s block.
Every morning the children do uriting.
The arrangement was never putinto writin.
This agreement has to be be confirmed in writing.
His experiences in India influenced his later writings.
Ancient writings reinforce their claims 1o the land.
Christians share some of their sacred uritings with the Jeus.
His writings on the history ofartwerepublished by Greenway and Settle.
Her early writing was concerned with the French Revolution.
His writings range from ancient to contemporary art, and include a study of Giorgione's paintings.
His writings provide us with a first-hand account of the civil war.
Her writings reflect the breadth of her interests.
Youfinda greater usef the passive In scientific uriting.
Her influence has been ‘greatest through her writings.
Her name crops up frequently in writings about the Renaissance.
The book is a collection of writings on death by various authars.
He's got very neat writing.
Thelist was in Elizabeth's writing.
Thereare various kinds of civil wrongs, or torts.
Inflict If they do wrong, they have to be punished.
You areanswerable in court for wrongs done (o individuals.
According to her; her son could do no wrong.
He adrmiltted he had done her wrong and osked for forgiveness.
Its the job of the newspapers toexpose the wrongs suffered by such people.
Inthe~ Although he knew hewas in the wrong, he ‘wouldn'tapologize.
Chlldren have to learn the difference between right and wrong.
Whatever the rights and wrongs of the situation, there's not a lot we can do.
Things seemed to be going horribly wrong.
He got all his sums wrong.
The doctor could find nothing physically wrong with him.
Dor't get mewrong (= don't misunderstand me)-—I'm not asking for any favours.
She was able to prove him wrong.
You've got it all wrong.
She's simply wrong for this job.
They weren't for wrong with their estimate of 100 000.
You were completely wrong about Mourice.
The X-ray showed acrack inonerib.
The dentist took an X-ray of my jaw.
The result of the X-ray gaveno causefor concern.
They are cruising on a largemator yacht.
We dor't have a common sardstick by which to compare the two cases.
The new test provides a yardstick against which to measure children’s learning.
By anyjardstick, that's a large amount of money.
Knit, spin, weave The yarn is woven inta a coarse fabric.
The yarn has to be threaded throughthe needle.
There'sa knotin the yarn.
He tried to spin us some yarn about how he was collecting for the church.
He struggled to stifle a yauwn.
The little boy gave a huge yawn.
Hetried to conceal his yawn behind his hand.
He sat up and yawned hugely.
Hegot fed up of people yawning at him when he talked about his job.
The chart skows our performance over the past year.
The ‘event has ot proved popular in past years.
We have high hopes for the coming year.
She died the following year.
We aim todo even better in future ears.
She won the race for the third successive year.
He soon realized that a lot had changed in the intervening years.
In his later years, he drifted away from politics.
The new range puts us light years ahead of the competition.
He spent his sabbatical year doing research in Moscou.
The children spent the war years abroad.
She was ‘bornin Spain but spent her formativeyears in Italy.
He spent last year trying to geta new Job.
It took him ten years to qualify as a vet.
Next year they celebrate fifty years of marriage.
His wife's death has put years on him (~ made ‘him look/feel much clder).
Careful makeup ‘and styling can take years off you (= make you look much younger).
The last year went by in flash.
Ato sth The academicyear runs from October to June.
That year ‘saw theexplosion of the Internet.
The reforms will be fully implemented by the year 2007.
We lived there for ten years.
Britain was invaded in the year 1065, in~s If's thefrst ime we've met in years (= for many years).
We've been friends for over twenty years.
Over 10000 people per year are injured in this type of accident.
The book represents three years of hard work.
That was in the year of the great flood.
I've been waiting for this moment all year long.
The city tour runs all the year round.
She's only ten years old.
It's usually much colder at this time of year.
He still yearned after her, even after all these years.
She yearned for children of her own.
With (a) ~ He looked at her with yearning.
Hefell a great yearning after his old job.
They 'had adeep yearning for their homeland.
He yelled atme furiously.
She yelled in pain as she touched the hot iron.
The children were yelling with laughter yellow adj.
Her tecth were rather ellow.
She wore a pale yellow dress.
When the villagers were asked if they wanted the factory to be built, theanswer wasa resounding es.
They voted yes tostrike action.
Ineed asimple es or no.
This method of cultivation produces higher yield.
He attends regular yoga classes.
Shestill looks very young.
He seemed quite young to have so much responsibility.
His lack of qualifications was taken as ‘asign of amisspent youth.
She spent much of her youth in Hong Kong.
He wasted his youth in frontof a computer screen.
She contracted the disease during her youth.
He started going 10 discos in his early youth.
He played football throughout his youth.
In the first flush of youth Though no longer in the irstflushof youth she's stittremarkably energetic.
Youstill have your youth—that's themain thing.
He was a callow youth when he Joined the newspaper:| pimply, spotty Ske's going out with some spotty youth.
He burned with a forming zeal.
She went about the task with the zeal of an enthusiast.
She had a true zeal for journalsm.
Heis 74yearsold butstill Jullof zest.
The loveaffair addeda little zestto her life.
He compaigned with zest.
Thefabric got caught in thezipand tore.
Thezipon my bag has stuck.
The jacket was fustened by a zip at the front.
Thisarea benind thestation isa no20 zone for tourists.
The reglon has been declared an ecological disaster zone.
She stood some distance away from him to maintain a safety zone.
Most of the town centreis a traffic free zone.
Theteam finds ltself in the relegation zoneafter arunof poor results.
The rebels control the soiithern border zone.
The area has been declared a closed military zone.
Fighter planes are being sent to enforce the UN noJy zone.
An enemy plane was shot down after it violated the exclusion zone.
We were crossing into a new time zone.
Ald workers were ‘advised to leave the danger zone.
Europe isdivided into economic zones.
The plant grows only in the temperate zone.
We zad accidentally strayed into the war zone.
Companies within enterprise zones are given speclal help.
We saw a baby polar bear at thez00.
